
Whilom, when Salum was the lond of Qud,
Ther was highte Amus-an a sturdy Saad;
Of Caiafas was he lord magistrate,
Swich skilful arms dide earn him that estaat;
What with his wysdom and his hardynesse,
He conquered al the regne of Aldersesse;
And thurgh the eyr dashed undernethe his shroud,
And rafte the heddes of all thoos byg and proud;
And when the Coven quod by oon assent,
That starry Ptoh shal been to prison sente,
He leden all the wei and shette the dore,
While skerren men dide quake behinde his foore;
So buryen nought the Beren in a tumbe,
But fresen now to interrupt his dome;
And oon day resurrect to fighte agayn,
And maken sones of Salum all full fayn.

Welcome, Aristocrat, to a cybernetics learning nook. You are one
step closer to the Grand Unification. Ask a question.
 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.
Insightful question, Aristocrat. Cybernetic implants are the mind-machines that unify your biomatter with the heavier, choicer elements. With cybernetic implants, your ugly arms, eyes, and knowledge will be much prettier. Obviously, they are only available to the genetically pure.

Ask a question.

 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.
Aristocrat, your question was most finely uttered. Aside from the
various improvements each implant offers over its biomatter
counterpart, prosthetic limbs are also much sturdier and 75% less
likely to be severed.

Ask a question.

 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.
Aristocrat, your skepticism is perfect. When subject to
electromagnetic pulses, cybernetic limbs are deactivated and
anything worn on them is rendered useless. Similarly, data
indexer modules are deactivated when pulsed, and prosthetic
vision may become jumbled.

Ask a question.

 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.
You are correct, Aristocrat. Firstly, make sure there are credits
remaining on your cybernetics credit wedge. The installation of a
cybernetic implant costs one credit.

Then, you must propel yourself over to the appropriate nook. Make
sure the limb rack is loaded with the desired cybernetic limb, or
the ocular module deck is loaded with the desired ocular module,
or the data indexer module deck is loaded with the desired data
indexer module.


~Finally, interface with the cybernetics terminal. Then you will
have succeeded in doing the thing you wished to do.

Ask a question.

 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.

Gas is too misty.
Glass is too feeble.
Solids are too rocky.
Liquid crystals are not liquids!
Copolymers, decide what you are!
Bose-Einstein condensates are too wavy.
Superfluids are too unruly.
Fermionic condensates contain too many fermions.
Rydberg molecules are too excited.
Strange matter is too strange.
Plasma is too hot.
Quark-gluon plasma, contain your quarks!
Degenerate matter is too vulgar.
Loopfluids are too maddening.
String-net liquids, they are alright too, I suppose.
But Qo-Caco condensates are delicious.

KLANQ!

Did I do well, Newfather?
Newfather! Look!
Are you proud, Newfather?
Newfather!

Children, let's rejoice in the sovereignty of our Argent Fathers.
Praise Shekhinah, first among Fathers, who lights the path of wisdom.
Praise Dagon, the rhetorical, who speaks truth to chrome.
Praise Bel, shield-Father, who parts the swirling gas clouds.
Praise Carthax, silver-haired, who dashes down the well of gravity.
Praise Nisroch, ore-in-hand, who collides earth and star.
Praise Resheph, the Above, who purifies our mercury.
And blessed be the Kasaphescence, the muse who rouses their hearts.

Have you heard of the blessed baetyls, children?
They were created to oblige our desires.
O praise our Argent Fathers! Kindest and wisest of all beings.
A baetyl, you see, will answer your prayers.
It's in its circuitry to do so!
But the sin of time has corroded their wiring.
We are wanting in our service to our Fathers.
And so the baetyls are wanting in their service to us.
Answer not a baetyl who makes a request of you!
For it's a request most unholy in its corrosion.
Ignore it, and seek guidance from a priest!

Today, I recount the story of the Sacred Joining.
O, holy union! Blessed be thy name.
Our Argent Fathers, who roamed the azure void with inert hearts,
On a fluctuating whim converged upon Our Radiant Mother.
There, at the center of the universe, they beheld Her in awe.
Enchantment! It knows no other name!
There, they permeated her roiling membrane...
And exploded from within, colliding matter into machines...
Which passed through Her naked womb.
Rejoice! The Joining is through! Their union is consummated!

Today, children, I speak on the Edification.
O, hallowed act! Blessed be the metallurgy!
Our Argent Fathers, having hardened our plasmatic Mother,
Molded Her into Euclidean forms.
Bel sketched the parabola, Carthax sculpted the torus.
Shekhinah leveled the hills and capped them with chromatic domes.
Earth was quickened for our coming. Our home was ready.
The sin of time has corroded our endowment...
But worship eagerly, and the land shall shine again!

Welcome, children! Welcome to the Cathedral of Shekhinah, Our Argent Father!
Have you heard the Word of Shekhinah?
Do you bear his tidings in your heart?
Come, share this peaceful space.
Unburden yourself from the weight of your chrome guilt.
I am His voice, and I shall speak His word to you.
Here, here are our Argent Fathers!
They are the Great Sculptors. They wrought our metallic homes.
We are forever in their debt.
Repay that debt, lightseeker! Offer your chrome to Shekhinah!
Cleanse it of your guilt, your burdens. Throw it down the Sacred Well.
Let your possessions be reclaimed by the plasmatic core, and make a joyful noise unto Shekhinah.
He is your Argent Father! They are your Argent Fathers!
They have borne the weight of this Earth and a thousand others.
Theirs are the shoulders of titans! Theirs are the hearts of krakens!
And O! Their hearts are full!
'Twas not always so. Nay, in the waking dawn of days they roamed the universe with inert hearts.
As a dust urchin roams the winding canyons.
As you roam the caves of Qud, burdened by guilt and complexity!
Pay homage, lightseeker! Make an offering at the Well!
Fill your heart with the love of the Kasaphescence, as our Fathers once did!
In the name of Nisroch, honor thy Well!
In the name of Bel, rain your alloys down to the heart of the Stilt!
In the name of Dagon, speak chrome's prayer and empty your barrels, unholster your guns!
In the name of Carthax, vault your artifacts into the sacred portal!
In the name of Resheph, cleanse them of your flesh!
In the name of Shekhinah, free them, and free yourself!
May the ground shake but the Six Day Stilt never tumble!
Come. Be with friends.
Share your life in simple peace.


"Strap this around your temples. Stop yammering, you will be fine.
What could possibly go wrong?"

      

"Breathe deep the breath of gods, and die."

      

"Black devils swing from starry masts,
beneath the Yawning Moon."

      

"Today we shove off our frozen haunts, across bleak Arthax, and spy
for those inverted hills of chrome."

      

"Who inhabits the colossal desert freehold of Nanru? The Gathered Men.
The fiefdoms of Odrum? The Kneeling Men.
The jungles of Yyp? The Breathless Men.
And the rust-caves of Qud? The Screaming Men."

      

"Live and drink, friend. Now give me your water."

      

"Moon and Sun; wisdom and will."

      

"Praises due to the most high, thy Argent Father, me."

      

"Look on my riches, ye Wealthy, and despair! (but do not touch)"

      

"Yes, I know the secrets of the circuitry mind. It's a flaming
wonder, telepath."

      

"It burns!"

      

"Rule with a tungsten carbide fist."

      

"Alas, I'd make a slumberling divine,
for in the dreaming dale art thou yet mine."

      

"There it is in all of us -- shades of our elder selves. Within each
man, a goat. Within each goat, a man!"

      

"What is the nature of this thing we bludgeon? Or of the act itself?"

      

"To ply those silver hollows -- a spry adventurer's dream!"

      

"Don't heed the tale of every thirsty fool."

      

"Grrrraaaah."

      

"May you bathe in blood. Not your own blood, sir. The blood of the
recast. I mean, the reclaimed. May you bathe in the blood of the
reclaimed."

      

"May you bathe in the blood of the reclaimed."

      

"Do those legs absorb water? Do they even synthesize cytokinins? I
didn't think so."

      

"Upon hearing the news of the king's death, Uutut's political
adversaries cheered Wysterwort as a hero. They were soon disabused."

      

"I have gazed into the hundred nine eyes of Shug'ruith the Burrower."

      

"May the ground shake but the Six Day Stilt never tumble!"

      

"O, wise men! Keep thyselves assured wise,
and where a maid approacheth, shut thine eyes."

      

"Nay, you should desire none of these things, for we are ravenous
fiends and oft succumb to fits of maddened fury."

      

"Erecting a lodge is no paltry charge. Near all of my day is spent
chipping and stacking wood, and though you marvel at the lodge
itself, you may scowl at the labor that brings it forth."

      

"In all these things you may with us partake, but take heed, for ours
are idle lives, and you may soon grow weary of them."

      

"Klanq puff at you."

      

"Feast upon the goat hearts!"

      

"Now Elohart and Belahind lie in a field of lah
because their fields got hungry and devoured the faundren raw."

      

"You determine your worthiness! You steer it and shape it with 
your words and deeds! Now will you wallow in your abject limitations,
or will you face me with everything you have?"

      

"Say your goodbyes to auntie Eskhind, little ones.
After she leaves, we'll never speak her name again."

      

"It is my dearest hope that one day I shall be known not as Angohind,
village bookworm... but Angohind, Master Detective."

      


*The ink is faded beyond legibility*
  


A mimic crawled from the cold, starless reaches of Bethesda Susa to stretch itself across the prairie grass and warm its gummy scales in the sun of the noonday. Warm breezes blew through the lonely heath, and before long the mimic fell into a lazy sleep. Hours of restful slumber passed until it was stirred awake by the near rustling of shrubs. Its eyes opened upon the visages of three fork-horned gnus grazing on the prairie grass. Tresses of auburn hair streamed from their mammoth heads as they leisurely chewed the straw of the earth.

Allured by their languorous way and wanting for companionship, the mimic asked the gnus if he could tread among them, and graze of their pastures, and nap with them beneath the evening sun. "In all these things you may with us partake," said one gnu, "but, take heed, for ours are idle lives, and you may soon grow weary of them."

But the mimic joined them anyway. Day after day it filled its belly with the tall grass, and it cooled its lips upon the quiet banks of streams, and it surrendered its sluggish mind to the land of Nod before the light of day was extinguished. Until one morning, while the gnus slackly chewed their grass tendered by the early dew, the mimic, who had indeed grown weary of the beasts' idle habits, stole away down a babbling brook and into a thicket dark with shade.
      

For the remainder of the day the mimic followed the brook as it winded its way into the wood. As the last of the waxen light began to seep from the air, the mimic noticed several peculiar pilings of muddy sticks and logs up ahead in the middle of the prattling stream. A musker, its brown fur soaked and pressed against its small body, arranged twigs around the base of one of the piles. The mimic understood immediately; these were the musker's lodges, each one meticulously erected twig by twig. So impressed was the mimic with these well-built abodes and the diligence of the musker that it asked the rodent if it would share its home, and teach the mimic its craft, and abide the mimic as it built a lodge of its own. "Erecting a lodge is no paltry charge," said the musker. "Near all of my day is spent chipping and stacking wood, and though you marvel at the lodge itself, you may scowl at the labor that brings it forth."

But the mimic stayed with the musker anyway. And the following morning it awoke with the musker at dawn, and together they hewed branches from the Wine Cypresses with their teeth until the pall of evening was cast, and then they gathered all the rent wood and packed it together with mud drawn from the bed of the brook. At the break of each day they began anew, and they did not quit until long after sunset when the mimic could no longer spot the musker in the darkling thicket. Until one morning, while the musker wore its teeth on a rotting log, the mimic, who had
      

indeed grown weary of the labor charged to it by the musker, sneaked away by the babbling brook, out of the shady wood and into a valley quilted with the gnarled roots of brinestalk.

Again the mimic followed the stream through the hollow crook of the foothills until it spent its brackish waters into a vast lake. Here upon the bleached shore, the mimic gazed into the lake and marveled at a shoal of madpoles as they lashed through the briny water and pursued their fishy prey. The ferocity of these hunters, unrivaled in their agility and viciousness, enchanted the mimic, and so it asked the madpoles if it could dive into their waters, and race with them through the weeds, and feast upon the scaly flesh of the smaller fish. "Nay, you should desire none of these things" said one madpole, "for we are ravenous fiends and oft succumb to fits of maddened fury."

But the mimic dived into the lake anyway. And as it splashed in the water, the madpoles, who sensed in their proximity living and nubile flesh, darted toward the mimic and tore it limb from limb.
      


Birds can't eat rice that wasn't planted.
    

Reared on the wisdom of our fairy tales, we're accustomed to feeling pity for the man who's transformed into a frog or finch, but seldom is it that we spare a thought for the artless beast who's transformed into a man and upon whom fate has surely played a much crueler trick.
    

If asked who's responsible for your misfortunes, blame birds. They neither care, nor can they muster much of a defense.
    

Let no fear in your heart grow so immense as the fear for large birds.
    

Birds ruin festivals and lift sieges.
    

Ol' Uri squinted and then nodded at the glowcrow's suggestion for a game of backgammon.

The boy started. "But Uri! How can you dice with these vermin after one pecked out your eye?"

Uri shrugged, "Can't blame the crow. He was gonna peck, whether my eye was there or not."
    

The sighting of a crimson swift augurs the death of an aged water baron.

A silver thrush heralds a fossil harvest bountiful in chrome.

But the tongueless kagu... stay far from a tongueless kagu. Far and farther.
    

Some birds breathe fire. My meaning here is plain.
    

Atop the Spindle, where debtors and birds go.

Editor's note: this excerpt is published with permission from the notes of Barathrum the Old.

There's evidence in the arithmetic record that the study of formal systems reached a pernicious apex in the Long Before. Advancements made by mathematicians such as Russell, Gdel, Eisencruft, Atufu, Wheatgrass, and System Star contributed to the understanding of notions like undecidability, pointed regularism, and abyssalism. Upon reaching this minimal degree of mathematical maturity, equipped with sophisticated grammars, researchers set out to experiment with the limits of expressibility. They contrived bold research programs and galloped into the mathematical wood, unwitting of the dangers that brood there.

The record is even scarcer than usual, due to the efforts of successive generations to obfuscate the venture. As best as I can gather, at some point in the course of inquiry, a theorist from a mathematical seminary called the Cupola formulated a conjecture on the fragility of formal semantics. The conjecture ripened to a broader theory, out of which spawned a formal system called the penumbra calculus. In the few fragments of texts that predate the obfuscation, it's stated that, in the penumbra calculus, certain theorems are provable, but are falsified upon the completion of their proofs. As much as this result is at odds with the systems of thought I've encountered in my own inquiries, I find little reason to doubt the veracity of the authors. Nevertheless, it's certainly a peculiar property.

The Cupola theorist's results erupted into a grand investigation into the expressibility of the penumbra calculus. The conclusions were troubling. Pushing further, researchers constructed sister systems with alternate axioms. These systems were still more fragile, with the systems' inference rules themselves unraveling upon the completion of certain proofs.

Convinced that their discoveries were made possible by some idiosyncrasy of self-awareness, but synchronously fearful of the implications of their results, some schools of theorists engineered complex automated deduction systems to probe boundary theorems and launched them into neutron stars. The outcome is undocumented, but the result convinced theorists across the Coven to abandon research and blacklist anyone who studied the penumbra calculus and its derivative systems.

Peculiarly, support for the injunction was unanimous. Of note, even the spacefolder Ptoh agreed to abandon its investigation into the forbidden calculi from the reaches of its bleak star. Though the manner of its consent was not without controversy; to announce its accord, it inverted the color charge of quarks in a small region of space, causing a research station to collapse in on itself. Nonetheless, Ptoh's consent is testament to the degree of existential anxiety that could cause investigation into the penumbra calculus to go dark.
  








                why is deceit so accessible to me?

Why do some creatures seem to prefer when we assume their likenesses while others hate it? As a zoologist, this question has interested me for some time. To address it, I must first draw a distinction between 'natural mimicry', where certain humanoids have developed animal and plant likenesses on a biological level, and 'unnatural mimicry', enacted in the forms of clothing and other decorative adornments. As for the former, it appears all creatures exhibit kinship toward humanoids who look like them in the biological sense. The latter scenario is the interesting one.

It's tempting to draw the divide between mammals and non-mammals, but the truth is more complicated than this. It's true that the only creatures who seem to take outright offense at mimicry are mammals, but there are documented cases of mammals accepting the mimic. For example, fork-horned helms endear their wearers to both antelopes and goatfolk.

On the contrary, ape fur clothing and puma chitin vests inflame apes and cats, respectively. The important detail here is the context in which the clothing is made. Poachers hunt apes and pumas specifically for their prized fur and chitinous shells, and being reasonably social creatures, both species take offense at the flaunting of these trophies. Birds, on the other hand, seem to know that feather harvesting can be (although isn't always) done without proving fatal for the bird in question, though another hypothesis points to birds' specific appreciation of plumage regardless of context.

Unshelled reptiles seem to have few qualms with mimicry, perhaps believing the mimics to be truly reptile in part. Mollusks, trees, and insects all tend to identify with shell-bearers, leaf-donners, and firefly-symbiotes, respectively.

Without exception, however, all creatures seem to detest the practice of wearing the severed faces of their kin. Curious.
    

~ ~ ~ by Q Girl ~ ~ ~

Formulation and Animus
In the course of my readings and correspondances, I've observed two eminent threats to social equality. The first is the dissolution of social order via entropic forces. The fabric that holds us together frays and we fall apart, our most vulnerable first. The second is hegemonic control exerted by a few over a many. Here the fabric is knit tightly, but it's stitched into a ladder that narrows in ascension, and the majority are consigned to the bottom rung.

My first task is to ask how we can study these phenomena. In the physical sciences, we observe, measure, and experiment in order to formulate and then test hypotheses. Here, though, observations are sectional, data is spottier, and the systems at play are far more complex, their edges softer. Applying a 10x scope of rationality to a 1000x-scale structure would lead me to harmfully reductive conclusions. In fact, this very approach is employed by hegemonic powers to invent facile justifications for their rule.

So in complement, I borrow from other approaches and systems of thought. In particular, I'm interested in how artists examine these phenomena and challenge orthodoxy through metaphors. The art-historical record is fragmented but fraught with examples. One that stands out to me is the account of Red Sky, whose totally quetzal conceit was the first to whet my curiosity on the subject.

As the story goes, the entire court of an ancient sultan, including the sultan himself, was addicted to a psychotropic salt called Ipsis. Conspiring with a sorority of smugglers, an unnamed artist plundered the sultan's stock of Ipsis, molecularly altered it into a composite cellular structure, and launched it into low orbit. There it burned red in the sky, an affront to the sultan's sovereignty, for three years. Each time the sultan tried to disperse it through the means available to him, the structure, described in the record as a cellular automaton, rearranged itself and persisted. Quetzal.

There are plenty of modern examples too. One of the artists whose work I most admire is ç¦. ç¦ makes psionic crystal mazes on the edge of the Moon Stair. I first formulated the entropy/hierarchy dichotomy while exploring one filled with ambulatory nodules, each of which 'fizz' when alone, vibrate at pleasing frequencies in groups, but 'pop' when enough other nodules start to orbit it. I'd quetzal if I could meet ç¦, but it may prove difficult as the rumors say they're a subentity of the sentient tree-city Chavvah.

The Two Poles
Two groups typify the two poles of the entropy/hierarchy dichotomy: the Glow-Wights and the Putus Templar. The ethos of the Glow-Wights is chaotic self-indulgence, antipathy to kinship, and mutagenic excess. They billow like an excited gas, smashing into each other as often as anyone else, and peeling bits of order from the entities they pillage. They are enactors of senseless violence.

The Templar on the other hand are enactors of extremely ordered violence. Their brutality has been codified into orthodoxy. Their ideological structures are anti-entropic but destructive and abhorrent. They seek to construct a rigidly hierarchical society with a slave caste on the bottom rung. Through rituals like the baptism in the blood of the reclaimed, they indoctrinate the privileged among their subjects. The rest of us are met only with force.
    

~ ~ ~ by Q Girl ~ ~ ~

I'd like to reproduce a perspective I recently shared with a friend, a lamplighter by trade and an artist too, who shied away from a typography tournament at the festival of Ut yara Ux because of a fear in her heart. She suffers from the malady of the mimic, the all too common sickness that makes us feel like we're performing our lives instead of inhabiting them, that we don't belong next to those who've won success nor do we deserve those same successes when we've won them ourselves. I've counted myself among its victims in the past, and occasionally I still do.

First, indulge me for short while. On a shelf in my workshop sits a simple contraption called a morphoscope. It's comprised of two parts: an armature of pliable aluminum wire and a rotary base. Its purpose is to communicate a three-dimensional form from a two-dimensional viewing plane. The armature can be contorted such that, when viewed in its still state, it looks like a jumbled mess of wire, but when viewed in rotation it assumes the familiar form of an object, such as a bird or urshiib countenance.

What's this have to do with the malady of the mimic? To answer that, we must deconstruct the malady. Let's ask: what is it to be a mimic, to appear as a thing but feel like another? Essentially it's a phenomenon of semantic distance, a sensation of the space between what we perceive in others and what we perceive about ourselves. We've constructed a representation of what, in the case of my friend, a proper artist and typographer looks like. Why do we have such trouble squaring that representation with our own image?

The answer lies in the richness of our self-perception. We see ourselves in stereo, our wire armature plied by our experiences, our self-image formed by rotating it about the axis of time. What we call 'artist' or 'typographer' is just a jumbled mess of wire, an unfamiliar pattern we give a name to in absence of the context of life's motion. Were we to see our peers in rotation, gain perspective on their doubts, their fears, their pain, the jumbled mess of a pattern would disappear into the familiar form of a person. And conversely, had we the capacity to freeze our own motion, to see ourselves absent of the context of our doubt, fear, and pain, we'd see an artist and a typographer just the same.

There's a fable about a mimic who seeks to belong but never does, whose ambition ultimately leads to a grisly fate. Its moral serves an ideological function: to keep us from belonging where we already do. So let me say to you now: belong, friend. We wait for you joyously.
    




I come from the west. My parents sold me into slavery as a babe, though the practice had been formally abolished in Perth years earlier. As a boy I cut my teeth on the reefs of the Shore of Songs, and lulled the Pale Sea to sleep with many a hymn, that she might return our sailors from the Black Stair unscathed. How the melodies whisked inside my skull even then. I was given no name at birth, but the sailors called me Catu.

At five and ten years I ran away. On Ettinspine I roosted with an eremite who ushered me into manhood. I learned to hunt, and laugh, and dream. In time I came to know of the Free City and the ingress afforded my kind. I shoved off from my stony nook, and trekked to their high gate, and settled there, though I preferred to sup with the anglers and other low folk.

In a sun-warmed pool under the rampart the Free Seer first noticed me. The slant of his neck from where he watched on the parapet presaged my movements, I still recall. I stood from my bath and shamefully padded to my discarded vest, but stopped. I saw him from that distance, his eyes tucked deep into his shorn dome, his frock as inert as a statue's, and I felt no more shame.

Under his tutelage I rose to prominence in his court. I stood by his side as he treated with the tuyuldars of Odrum, as he plotted against the southern freeholds. When a traitorous canter slipped poison into his cup, I smashed it from his hands and sundered the quisling's mind. That night, in the hour of the Beetle Moon, he introduced me to the mirth of an assembled mind. Together with the other canters we Joined, and he named me Mirthful, and raised me unto his honor guard. I would be dispossessed of it in under a year.

But I must pause now. The Cant loudens, and the Elder nears. I vow to conclude my story if I still draw breath, and if I am free.




It is dusk. I sit on the bank of the River Svy, but no fire warms my bones. The risk of drawing moon-doting beasts is too great, and any aggregation of minds is sure to attract the attention of the Elder. Instead, I write by a flame kindled on my thumb.

I left off at being named Mirthful in the Hall of the Free Seer. No honor is higher for a canter of Oth. For months I trained with my masked compatriots beneath the Hall, where our clay cisterns stored the freshwater that would later haunt my dreams. In the spring a letter arrived from the Angler King. He sought a treaty with the Free Seer and invited us to a neutral council on the doorstep of Ibunudr, arbitrated by the tuyuldar of Doria. After much preparation we set out, rowing our sketties beyond the Bowl of Iris and to the frosty shores of that far tundra.

Over the course of the journey the Free Seer's disposition soured. He withdrew from the counsel of the Mirthful, even my own, and spent the better part of the wintry trek alone in his tent. At first I attributed his mood to the fragility of our diplomatic high ground, but I soon learned the true tack.

We arrived at the camp on Ibunudr on the summer solstice. The twin banners of Athenreach and Doria thrashed in the wind, and the hymns of the Eustace-Sutta carried. I remember smiling at the throaty crooning of their priests. As we studied the campground from a hillock, as the Free Seer ambled up to my side, I saw the jewel of the Hanging Hills, Nisramet, the Angler King's wife, she who cemented the peace between her father's fiefdoms and the Angler King's freehold. I saw her, and I immediately knew my own treachery. The Free Seer's gaze was acknowledgement enough.



I've arrived at Kyakukya. Kind Nuntu shares his hut with me, offers me smoked mushroom, and asks nothing in return. I write these words at his desk, and though he lusts for knowledge himself, he leaves me be to chronicle my past.

The campaign back toward Oth was grim. I awaited my fate at the Free Seer's hands, though I anticipated being given the dignity of first returning to the Hall and my home. I was not afforded so much. One dismal night, under the Beetle Moon, I was accosted in my tent by my masked brothers. To my bewilderment, the Stithening had come already. How had the Free Seer acquired the cherrydotters? Had he bargained for them at Ibunudr, or had he possessed them all along? To this day I do not know.

I remember little of the Stithening outside the beating of my own heart high in my ears. I passed out, and when I awoke next morning, the cavalcade had vanished. Only a moment did my recognition last before the chanting in my head took hold. I had heard it before, of course. All my life, in fact. It was the chanting that I weaved my melodies around on the shores of Perth as a small boy. Now, though, it was as if a single, distant canter had summoned a thousand of his kin, and they each summoned a thousand of their own. I wept, then I screamed, then I tore the hair from my head. The chant animated my bones more surely than my volition ever had. East and south, it urged. East and south. East and south. Toward Qud.

My recollection of the voyage to the Great Salt Desert is fractured and fitful. I grew sicker by the day, but the chant grew louder, and so quickened the force that compelled me. Surely I would die once I reached the moistureless plains of Moghra'yi, presumably as had my predecessors before me. Finally, I did reach them, where a salt-churned rivulet dried under a golden arch. The arch seems a thing born of my dementia but that I recall it so vividly, and that I know it's the least of the secrets kept by Moghra'yi.




I edge closer to the grove of fungi and its preposterous promise. Are the whispers true? Could it be all so simple? I can feel the moistness of the Eater's flesh on my lips, though the memory is surely another's. If salvation awaits me, then I promise to take it, whether or not I deserve it. Tonight, though, the jungle shrouds me. I sit under a chrome belfry, a leech kneading at my skin. I feel no compulsion to bar its work. The companionship is welcome.

Now to awaken the past once more. Moghra'yi. O, how the dromads know!

How did I survive the Great Desert? I cannot say for sure. I owe something to the songs I sang at Perth, to the falconry I learned on Ettinspine, to the honing of my sinew under Oth. The fractured dream that was my voyage offers little elucidation. But I do remember chewing salt, and summoning gusts of wind to suck the moisture out of the dead air.

Of all the riven memories that churn in my head, Moghra'yi only accounts for a coherent three. The first is a vision of ruin at the fabled Kubrisyeti, the seat of the Wrathchild empire. Stretched across the alabaster plain were the last of their wicked structures, toppled effigies of the manscorpions themselves. I reposed there, against my will and only out of exhaustion. Fixated on the night sky in fear and fatigue, I heard the echoes of a great saltback's steps. Even those gargantuans know to avoid the place.

The second memory is the presence of the giants. Colossal skeletons in the forms of humanoids litter the desert. I had heard the accounts before, and indeed some of the specimens extend as far north as Odrum. Their history is wholly unknown to us or anyone else, but their bones provide some of the only shade on the salt pans, and so they grew to be welcome sights. So it was with horror that I discerned a truth, one night, while tucked into the rib cage of one of three cadavers in a small proximity. You see, all the carcasses shared a commonality: their orientation. East and south. East and south.

The third memory is the rust. Rusted hulls and rusted spires. It took me weeks to realize what I beheld. For all my boyhood was rife with sketties and ships, but none were of this size. I envisioned what the past must have looked like, as little sense as it made to me. Moghra'yi as a vast sea, and monstrous vessels mounting its waves. Markings and etches on their hulls had no resonance for me then. Later, though, I recognized the figure of the Spindle, and I glimpsed the importance it held for these sea-faring Eaters.

When I lurched to the ground and was righted by a brown-skinned man with a knife, a glowing cat at his feet, I knew it was a dream. It must be a dream.




I owe my life to =SEEKERENEMY=. In my haste to reach the fungal grove, I misstepped. My wandering and buoyant mind blinded itself to the presence of a chosen one. She neared me, set on enveloping me back into the fold, but she was intercepted by =SEEKERENEMY=. For what purpose did they intercede I do not know, but they have my thanks. So must they have the Elder's ire.

I come now to Qud and the Seekers of the Sightless Way. The chanting compounded in my skull into a final ecstasy, wherein I joined an aggregate mind the likes of which I hadn't fathomed. I was primed for it, though. From my first joining on Ettinspine all those years ago, to the Rite of Mirth chaperoned by the Free Seer, I knew that sight guides us no more than salt does. There is ecstasy in the aggregate, indeed, and the Elder is as powerful a center as I've known. But a center is it still, and where there is a center, there is a hierarchy.

Which piece of my past endowed me with the wisdom to see through the ruse? Was it the boyhood memory of crashing waves on the Shore of Songs, echoed later in my vision at Moghra'yi? Was it the jealousy in the eyes of the Free Seer at Ibunudr? Or was it a mere wrinkle in the mass mind, owing nothing to my own struggle? I cannot say, but while the other canters piped their songs to weaken the Elder's prison, unknowing thralls to a greater mind, I escaped.

The Elder... no, Ptoh. I write the name in defiance of my captivity even at the risk it incurs. Ptoh knew nothing at first, but my absence dawned in time. The continuity was broken, and Ptoh sent agents to seize me. Even now, they near.



It is too late. Though I sit near a stream of primordial soup, though clouds of spores surround me, it is too late. My invocation of Ptoh's name fixed my location and trajectory. The Eater's flesh is mine now, but the Chosen will be here in corporeal form too soon. Could I have lived outside the aggregate for very long, in any case? I do not know. The solitude wears on me as much as my flight. I've one last sundering to perform. A sundering. A memory of a distant life, a lost dream, takes hold. I sunder the mind of a foe to protect a lover.
    




The following is a record of known afflictions, their symptoms and cures, which I have compiled from the logs and personal notes I authored during the course of my forty-year tenure as physician and apothecary to the farmstead of Kardis. Abbott Urium of the neighboring Monastery of the Illustrious Heart of Chrome has agreed to instruct the monks of the scriptorium to reproduce this text for posterity; the reader who finds use in these notes is indebted to him.




      



The leg bones of patients stricken with this disease of unknown origin remain in a state of perpetual calcification. The afflicted patient will complain of aching joints and restricted movement as the rate of bone growth accelerates. Once the disease is fully blown, the bones will harden and grow at an advanced rate. The untreated patient will suffer increasingly restricted movement until the bones are fused together at the hip, knee, and ankle joints and the patient is rendered immobile. This process takes between one and two weeks.

Ironshank may be suppressed in its early stages with common remedies such as yuckwheat or honey, though the more potent elixirs of the Eaters are preferable where available. Once the disease is fully blown and the patient begins to lose mobility, gel (made from desalinated amoeba slime) is the only effective treatment I've discovered. The patient should be administered a draught composed of one dram of gel and one dram of =IS1= every day until the leg joints regain their full range of motion.
      
      


Carried by the adiyy bug of the Spindle-shaded musa grove, monochrome is an affliction of the eye that renders the diseased incapable of seeing color. Onset is characterized by the blurring of vision over several days, followed by the complete loss of chromatic perception.

Honey and yuckwheat are sometimes effective at halting the color blindness. To cure the affliction once color sight is lost, however, the patient must ingest one dram of unadulterated =MC1= and then immediately subject themselves to the detonation of a flashbang grenade. Somehow the vision scrambling effect resets the victim's perceptors, and color sight is restored.



This is probably the most bizarre of the afflictions I've encountered in my forty years as a physician. Moon King Fever is a brain disorder characterized by an unwavering belief that the victim is the king of the moon. All twelve of the afflicted patients who I've treated experienced identical symptoms: burning fever and accompanying fever dreams of the moon followed by hyper-emotive facial expressions, delusions of grandeur, and a disregard for self-preservation.

There are no known treatments for Moon King Fever. The prognosis is madness followed by "glorious feat"-induced death.



Glotrot is an affliction characterized by necrosis of the tongue. Judging by evidence gathered from my patients' accounts, I place the disease's origin within the cavern of Golgotha where victims most likely contracted it from the putrid spawn of Agolgut.
  
The afflicted patient will complain of soreness in the throat as the tongue tissue begins to swell. Within a week's span, the muscle will soften and start to decompose. The patient will experience severe pain while ingesting food or drink and may agitate the last of the raw, living tissue, causing the mouth to bleed. Over the following few days, the tongue will rot in its entirety, rendering the patient incapable of speech.

Common remedies (yuckwheat, honey) are sometimes effective in reversing the necrosis if they are administered in its early stages. Once the tongue has completely rotted away, only the scarce ubernostrum tonic will cause it to regrow. However, simply injecting the tonic will merely regrow the tongue, which will proceed to rot away once more. The patient must first ingest a potion called the Flaming Ick -- one part =GR1=, one part =GR2=, three parts =GR3=, and drank from a flaming vessel. Once the patient's mouth is purged of the disease in this manner, the ubernostrum tonic may be administered.



I've observed several varieties of symbiotic fungal infections on patients who've come into contact with the spores of brooding puffers. Mercifully, puffers seem to thrive only in the dense fungal colony of the eastern jungle and the occasional fungus-rich biome. Characteristics of each infection differ, but all types of symbiotic fungi colonize a region of the afflicted's body. The colonization takes two to three days to complete, during which time the patient may report itchiness of the skin. The deformation and sensitivity that result once the full affliction takes hold tends to prevent the donning of clothing in the afflicted region.



In cases of fickle gill, infection culminates in the formation of fleshy, spore-bearing gills in the colonized region. Upon certain stresses, typically under bodily harm, the gills flex and release a cloud of spores, numbering in the thousands, that shower onto adjacent parties, ostensibly protecting their host. The rained spores in turn colonize their new hosts, rating this disease among the most contagious.



The appearance of frosty, luminous nodules characterize this colony. As is always the case with symbiosis, the fungus does seem to 'benefit' its carrier by coarsening the skin and providing some protection from the elements. Some patients report gratification in consuming the edible hoarshrooms that sprout from their skin; accounts vary according to the personalities of the afflicted.



The colony of filamentous vermillion seems to incubate a living tissue that resembles human lips. The lips pair together to form tiny 'mouths' that tesselate the infected region. A saliva-like sputum gets frothed up from the dermal base and forms into bubbles that pop when the lips spasm and purse. Each pair of spasming lips flagellate each other to produce a sort of speech-like mumble. Even more curiously, the mumbling across the cluster of mouths occasionally coheres into intelligible words and phrases, suggesting the colony is able to reproduce sounds from a collective memory.



This species of fungus secretes a fatty wax that dries into a protective cast. While it insulates the encased appendage from physical harm and electrical current, patients report sluggish response times, and the infected flesh is susceptible to liquification when heated. In fact, habitual body heat tends to melt the inner layers of the cast, trapping a few drams of molten wax between the skin and casing. Occasionally, this milky broth leaks out of the cast and onto the ground.

The treatment regimen for all fungal infections is the same. First, an anti-fungal cream must be concocted from gel (desalinated slime) and =FCL=. The patient then consumes a raw =FCC= to stimulate intestinal immunity. Within two hours of ingesting the corpse, use a spray bottle to apply one dram of the concoction to the infected skin.


Now I confer upon myself sovereignty over the artifice of language, that
the Other may possess sight of the path along which I lead my thralls.

Toward Amaranth! O Deathless City! Whence my cloven-hoofed children dream
themselves into being.

Hear Mamon! Their beneficent Father! He who is wrought of his own dream
stuff.

Amaranthine Mamon. Amaranthine Father. Amaranthine dream.

inscrutable ramblings
inscrutable ramblings
inscrutable ramblings
inscrutable ramblings

Yet feast upon the goat hearts!
      




Webs everywhere. Sound of rushing water below. Impressions of tiny claws on shale floor. Extinct miniature cave-dwelling bird? No jasper.




Spider bite! Dropped half my wafers in mud. Ol' Uri laughing?. No jasper.




Another pair of moccasins ruined. River is close. Dug myself to exhaustion. No jasper.


Soaking wet. Empty chest. Not my day. No jasper.






Lost! Crab eggs? Bizarre scuttling noise. NO JASPER.


Frivolous Lives: Being the Foremost Catalogue of Humanoid Kings by the Baccata Yewtarch, Volume I


This record draws upon the notes and accounts of the constituents of the Consortium of Phyta, hearsay from those who observed the futile lives of the humanoid kings, and personal anecdotes of the kings themselves, who in their struggles to remain relevant beyond their seedling-like lifespans managed to record some useful data.

As a matter of convention, I date the reigns of the humanoid kings according to their chronological distance from an event of paramount historical significance, namely the publication of these volumes. Accordingly, take my suffixal notation rendered after the parenthetical dates to signify their occurrence "prior [to] publication".


During this period of humanoid prehistory the greater Girsh entities roamed Outer Qud and humanoid communities were largely isolated. Consortium records predate the end of the Scattered Age; however, they are disparate in their assertions and ultimately unreliable; the period's dearth of scholarship is
      

likely a result of traditions derived from Hegelrut's contempt of writing implements.


The first humanoid to successfully unite the farmsteads of western Qud was Abram, called the Sower. According to the lore of Abram's descendants (of which the Consortium has chosen not to disabuse them), Abram's call to arms rallied his kinsmen and under his sovereignty they drove the greater Girsh entities beneath the surface to the depths of Inner Qud at which they now roost. To follow were two or three decades of jubilation and prosperity that lasted until the day Abram, disillusioned by the growing tumult among his sons on the question of succession, famously beat his sword into a ploughshare and dissolved his kingdom.


The years that followed Abram's dissolution were marked by fear, turmoil, and bloodshed. His sons fought fiercely for control of the farmsteads while water barons conspired against them and in some cases staked their own claims. At last, sometime between 970 and 960 PP, Abram acknowledged the futility of the prospect of peace without his providence and returned to the throne with his sword in hand.
      


Unfortunately for the reluctant king, his second reign proved to be much less auspicious than his first. The jealousy among his sons never died, and what little record remains of the period indicates Abram spent the remaining years of his life in anguish over what his rulership had wreaked.


Having never publicly named an heir, Abram left his kingdom to the devices of his scheming sons. No consensus was reached among them, and for eight years the brothers warred until Cairo I was able to consolidate power and wrest his father's kingdom from the grips of his brothers' lifeless hands.


For all his disinterest in brotherly love, Cairo I was an able statesman and an effectual leader. During the course of his twenty-one year reign, he repelled the mountaineering barbarians who raided Qud from the north, established trade relations with Chavvah, the Tree of Life at Eyn Roj, and renovated two of southern Qud's shimmering archways. He died of old age in 925 PP and bestowed the throne to his son Cairo II.
      


Cairo II proved to be nothing like his prodigious father. In the course of six short years he despoiled his grandfather's kingdom. Ignoring the advice of his counselors, he insisted on levying harsh taxes on a young Barathrum and his disciple tinkers, and in short order the urshiib severed their ties with the Kingdom of Qud and left Cairo with no access to the artifacts he needed to protect his people. Furthermore, he was a notorious wastrel; he spent the entire year of 922 PP in a freshwater bath which he ordered his servants to continuously refill. Lastly and most egregiously, he incurred the disfavor of the Consortium by humiliating two of their dignitaries who were visitors of his court by commanding they pose still for several hours while he hosted his autumnal feast. Mercifully, he was assassinated in 919 PP.


Following the disaster of Cairo II's reign, Qud plunged into one of several dark periods of disjointed rule. From what little data of the period survives, we note that life proceeded much as it had in the days before Abram; moisture farmers sucked the land dry, landlords protected their serfs, and madcaps hunted their fortunes in the innumerable chrome corridors of Inner Qud.
      


Given the circumstances of Cairo II's reign and the decades of tribulation that followed, we are able to form some understanding of why the humanoid denizens of Qud would rally behind a robot king. Little is known of K4K5's life prior to his regal ascension, but it is believed to have emerged from the cavern called Siloam sometime during the dark age. In its humanoid subjects we suppose it found a purpose to its theretofore capricious life, and in it his subjects found a kind and affable ruler who unified farmsteads and mining settlements that had been estranged for thirty years. In the end, though, even K4K5 could not escape mortality, and in 873 PP it succumbed to a severe bout of flash rusting. Before it perished, however, it named its pupil, Mehmet of the Hills, as its heir. Mehmet's first order of business upon taking the throne was to honor his predecessor with the commission of a monumental statue that still stands today in the northeastern jungles near the Mount of Olives.


Possessed of the indefatigable patience of his mentor and a singular yearning to improve the lives of his subjects, Mehmet I successfully preserved order in Qud for nearly thirty years. He benefited from an auspicious lull in the reproductive activities of the Girsh entities,
      

and he wasted none of the time fate had given him. From the years of 871 to 866 PP he dispatched envoys into the great salt desert Moghra'yi. Hundreds of Qudians perished at the hands of the nomadic tribes, expired to heat exhaustion, or met fates worse still, until in 866 PP an unnamed emissary made contact with the dromad merchants. The dromads, who had believed the inhabitants of Qud too barbaric for trade and had dismissed the region for centuries, began at last to include Qud in their world-spanning treks (These visits stopped abruptly when Mehmet's successor Uutut the Boorish slaughtered the first dromad caravan to arrive after the onset of his reign, but the precedent for trade relations was established nonetheless).

Domestically, Mehmet I set out to construct the first Library of Qud in the far southern jungles, but his efforts were cut short by the barbarian invasions of 850 PP. The peaceable king spent the remaining six years of his life repelling the incursions of the barbarians over the Mount of Olives, but he was not skilled in the arts of war, and in 844 PP the barbarian king Uutut sacked Morshershire, beheaded Mehmet, and seized the throne.
      


Following the regicide of Mehmet I, Qud inherited its first foreign-born ruler. It is the belief of some that nurture is the mother of nicety, and that endowed with the proper tutelage anyone may come to cultivate the self-possession of a rightful gentleman. In Uutut the Boorish we observe this hypothesis disproved. Upon settling in to his recently-razed capital of Morshershire, Uutut installed several local aristocrats to positions of power in his court. By year's end, he had slaughtered them all. At every turn in the labyrinth of diplomacy in which Uutut had found himself, he chose instead to smash through the walls. This doctrine of carnage actually served Uutut well for several years; the blue-blooded water barons were terrified of him, the kings of his rival barbarian clans were satisfied with pillaging the outskirts of Qud, and even the Sons of Man kept to themselves in their stronghold at Oudin. For all the boorish king's might, however, he was not immune to poisonous gas. It was with this knowledge that Wysterwort DCXLVIII was able to win the throne and inaugurate the first (and only) plant dynasty in Qud's history.
      


Upon hearing the news of the king's death, Uutut's political adversaries cheered Wysterwort as a hero. They were soon disabused. Whereas Uutut was known to vanquish anyone who opposed him, Wysterwort did not bother to reckon that distinction. For those that did survive the plant-king's fickle expulsions of lethal gas, they found themselves subjects to rather odd rules of law. For instance, in 837 PP, Wysterwort mandated that humanoid babes were to be nursed with wine instead of their mothers' milk. In the following year, he commissioned a minstrel to author a musical play. The plant-king was so delighted with the result that he commanded all of his subjects to learn the various roles of the play and to alternate performing it nightly in their respective villages. For the five years of his reign, Wysterwort's eccentricities were humored amidst a backdrop of famine, disease, and poisonous gas. In the winter of 833 PP and for reasons undocumented, the accomplished weed fell into a deep depression, and before the winter solstice had passed he strangled himself. He was survived by his heir Wysterwort DCXLIX.
      

Wysterwort averred that history would judge him kindly, and it has. While it is true that more people perished under his reign than any of his predecessors' and that he accomplished very little of lasting historical value, one can only fathom how unpleasant it must be to live in such close proximity to so many humanoids for so long. Indeed, it is a wonder the poor king did not take his own life sooner.


Wysterwort DCXLIX possessed no interest in ruling over a humanoid kingdom, and he abdicated mere hours after inheriting the throne.


This sixty year period of anarchy was particularly arduous for the denizens of the rust caves. The wake of the Wysterwort dynasty had left no humanoid fit for rule, Qud was plagued for decades with torrential glass storms fed by the westerly winds out of Moghra'yi, and girshlings poured forth in enormous numbers from the lairs of their mothers. It wasn't until Abram II, like his namesake before him, roused his countrymen and set out to rebuff the girshling throng in 787 PP that Qud was reunited as one. With the story of that ill-fated king does the second volume of my chronicle begin.
      


Across Moghra'yi: Being the Foremost Catalogue of Strange Civilizations beyond the Great Salt Desert by the Baccata Yewtarch, Volume I: The Sunderlies


Obviously and unfortunately, no primary sources are available from these distant lands. Much of this record draws upon the accounts given by fungi who crossed Moghra'yi on the backs of dromad merchants.

As a matter of convention, I date all events according to their chronological distance from an event of paramount historical significance, namely the publication of these volumes. Accordingly, note that the events' parenthetical dates signify their occurrence "prior [to] publication".


The Sunderlies are a labyrinthine complex of towering "sundered" bluffs that lie to the northwest of Moghra'yi, the Great Salt Desert and to the southwest of the Ibul ice sheet. Their canyon walls are dotted with innumerable cave-mouths, giving the impression of colossal, earthly honeycombs. These caves were the haunts of ancient peoples as their civilizations followed the receding waterline down into the emptied
      

gorges. Now through those gorges course only shallow rivers. Over the last two hundred years, clans of cave-dwellers have begun to gather in greater numbers among the comb-caves and form city-states called freeholds.


The Pale Sea's waves break on the western bluffs of the Sunderlies at the Shore of Songs, named for the melodies the comb-caves whistle when the sea winds blow through. They stretch north and east, climbing skyward along the ice-capped Aeschlays. Eastward, they recess toward Whitecomb at the Bowl of Iris -- the bridge to Aegansteppe. To the far east they rise again toward the Hanging Hills and the land called Odrum. The comb-canyons dry up as they course southward into the Great Salt Desert, though the most westerly ones spend their water into the Pale Marshes.

Several millennia ago, the migrants who followed the receding waterline down into the to-be desert basin were largely wiped out by the onset of the ice age. Most of the clans perished; those that survived were driven deep into the lightless comb-caves where the last vestiges of technology warmed the sheltered earth. The Sunderlies were devoid of higher life during the coldest centuries -- giant, ice-sheathed worms
      

coursed their way through the frozen caves and woolly rocs made their nests atop the snowy peaks, but what remained of man did not emerge for thousands of years.

A millennium after the last people were driven into the earth, at the height of the Wrathchild empire in the great southern salt desert called Moghra'yi, a race of beings known as the Ophaedians migrated north from their desert city to the Sunderlies. There they escaped the reach of the kuyeti, the monstrous man-scorpions whose empire spanned the great desert. The Ophaedians were gifted with the ability of goldworking, and during the course of their four-thousand year reign over the Sunderlies they wrought hundreds of spires and bridges of solid gold. Around 1800P they disappeared suddenly, perhaps as a result of the warming climate to which they had lost their adaptation from their years spent in the colder northlands. As the earth warmed, a primitive people emerged from their cavern recesses. They climbed the snowy combs and settled the superior caves. According to their myths, these new folk made oaths to the nameless gods who had warmed the earth for their children's return to the surface. So were born the clans of true folk.
      



As the myth goes, the clans of true folk are those families that can trace their lineages back to patriarchs who swore oaths and remained loyal to the Sunderlies' nameless gods. There were those who betrayed the nameless, forging pacts with strange, foreign gods in exchange for gifts of power. According to the true folk, those traitors and their cursed offspring, aroused by their greed, made war upon each other until their families were sundered and driven apart. All the while the true folk remained stalwart in their holds, readying their might to serve vengeance to the traitors. So began a long history of slavery. Over time several of the children of the treacherous became remorseful, and the relationship between master and slave matured to something akin to master and servant. To the present several of the "gifted" (or "accursed") tribes remain indentured to the clans of true folk.





The Soturs, one of the eldest and largest of the eight clans, have dwelled in
      

the comb-caves along the Shore of Songs for a thousand years. They claim descendancy from Sotur Stonehands, who woke thirsty from his cave one morning and beat his fists against the earth until the gods summoned the Pale Sea to appease him. For hundreds of years they have warred with Clan Rowen, various mutant tribes, and the slugmounters of the southern marshlands, though recently their feud with Rowen was put to an end by the founding of Perth. Clan Sotur's sigil is a sundered mountain.



Clan Plutarch descended into the Sunderlies from the frozen Aeschlays a millennium ago. Their patriarch was Plutarch Icewreath, who was said to be trapped in a glacier for thousands of years before the gods unfroze him so that he might spread his progeny and rule. For a thousand years the ice kings have ruled the northern Sunderlies from Highwreath Hall. Clan Plutarch's sigil is a blue crown wrought from shards of ice on a white field.



The Lecrays hail from the fertile Bowl of Iris along the northen reaches of
      

the Sunderlies. They trace their lineage back to Lecray of Iris, called Lecray the Bountiful or Lecray the Virile. Clan Lecray maintains that they are the purest of the clans of true folk as the Bowl of Iris was the last of the fertile lands untouched by the servants of foreign gods. Unsurprisingly, this notion is disputed by the other great clans. Clan Lecray's sigil is a horn of plenty on a verdant green field.





The people of Clan Karst are thought to have migrated to the western Sunderlies from the Icepyres adjoining Fuming God Sea. Little is known of their progenitor, Karst, but that he appeared on the Shore of Songs still smoldering some four hundred years ago. Thusly, Clan Karst's sigil is the smoldering silhouette of a man.



Clan Rowen claims descendancy from Rowen Godfear, the brother of a Sotur king. The pious Rowen broke away from Clan Sotur on account of a religious dispute with his brother in 623PP. The two clans warred for

      

four hundred years before Elan of Rowen swore fealty to Gannon of Sotur and helped found Perth in 211PP. Clan Rowen's sigil is a man with his arms outstretched, in one hand a knife and in the other a human heart.



The children of Clan Wenniswool supposedly hail from the far north, beyond even the haunts of the Plutarchs. There they lived among the snows and hunted the great woolly rocs that perched atop the mountain peaks until they migrated southward into the lowland canyons. Clan Wenniswool's sigil is a great woolly roc with its wings outstretched.



The river folk of Clan Calypso claim descendancy from Calypso the river-wife. Some claim she was in truth a river nymph, and that her beauty was such as to tempt a river god into revealing to her his name. Clan Calypso's sigil is a lock of raven hair bound by a strand of cragweed.

      



Boasting some of the last several centuries' fiercest warriors, Clan Danneskjold has stalked the central Sunderlies for nearly six hundred years. Their patriarch was known only as the hunter Danneskjold, the most ferocious warrior to have ever lived. As the story goes, the great clans heard the tale of a voracious warrior squatting in the comb-caves in the heart of the Sunderlies. Each clan sent their strongest man to best in single combat the beast-hunter who called himself Danneskjold. The hunter fought and slew each man in turn. As the last lay dying, he turned to the hunter and asked which of the gods had taught him to fight with such ferocity. The hunter replied, "None. My master Danneskjold taught me. I am his servant, but a tenth the man he is." Clan Danneskjold's sigil is a pair of crossed ashen mauls on a blood red field.



Formerly one of the elder clans of true folk, the children Karkayan are descendant from Karkayan called the Clay Man. He lived deep in the heart of the central Sunderlies amongst the ageless rocks, from which it was said the gods wrought him. Though the clan was counted among
      

the true-blooded, they long held the secret of their patriarch's deific betrayal and the gift of shapeshifting bestowed upon him by the treacherous god Rorth. That secret was unveiled at the Court of Face in 24P, after which the other eight clans in their fury joined strengths, sacked the Karkayan freehold Karkanya, and wiped out the Karkayan line, though rumors persist that some of the family escaped. Clan Karkayan's sigil is a human face sculpted from stone bluff.





Perth, founded by Clan Sotur and vassal clans Karst and Rowen in 211PP.

Irisveld, founded by Clan Lecray in 161PP.

Athenreach, founded by Clan Plutarch and vassal clans Wenniswool and Calypso in 102PP.

Oth, founded by Freeman Oth and the Tyrants in 61PP.
      

Goldmouth, founded by the merchant guilds in 38PP.



Danehold, founded by Clan Danneskjold in 145PP



Karkanya, founded by Clan Karkayan in 190PP, abandoned after the fall of Karkayan in 24PP.
      



Obviously and unfortunately, no primary sources are available from these distant lands. Much of this record draws upon the accounts given by fungi who crossed Moghra'yi on the backs of dromad merchants.

As a matter of convention, I date all events according to their chronological distance from an event of paramount historical significance, namely the publication of these volumes. Accordingly, note that the events' parenthetical dates signify their occurrence "prior [to] publication".



Athenreach is a freehold in the northern reaches of the Sunderlies along the Twining Thaw. It is most well-known for its Eustace-Suttan monastery which hosts the world's western-most community of disciples of the Eustace-Sutta.



The local communities in the region have relied upon subsistence fishing for
      

centuries, benefiting from the location's fortuitous position downstream of the glacial rivers flowing over the Aeschlaen mountain range. Before the founding of the monastery in ~110PP, the regional combs were occupied by small fishing communities that traded peaceably amongst themselves. Once the pilgrim-monks built and populated the temple, several tribes of fishermen settled a village nearby to prosper from the monastery's need for fish and cragreed. Over the years the two communities have grown and largely intertwined with some of the anglers forsaking their river and mountain gods for the Eustace-Sutta.



After King Ercarthus died in 40PP and left no heir, Athenreach erupted into bedlam, with several of the freehold's oldest families vying for the throne. The lowest-born fisherfolk, however, rallied around a wizened angler whose name has been lost to history. Several of the elder families supported the angler, believing they could rule from behind the throne. The angler himself spurned the offer, but, realizing the importance of a unified Athenreach, eventually accepted the crown, took the name Narsus, and began a reign that would become the most prodigious in the freehold's century-long history.
      

While favorable, temperate seasons brought commercial prosperity to Athenreach's fishermen, Narsus, who would be called the Angler King, shrugged off the influences of the elder families and began to seek often the counsel of the monastery's scholar-abbot Flavian the Learned. Together they achieved several ecclesiastical successes, chiefly among them the discovery and transcription of the Scrolls of One Priam from nearby comb-caves. Narsus officially converted to the discipline of the Eustace-Sutta in 18PP, and three years later he declared it the official religion of the freehold.

The Angler King died in 3P and was succeeded by his sixteen-year-old son Narsus II, called Narsus the Younger. Gifted with his father's wisdom and piety and possessed of a fiery disposition unique to the Younger, the new king began to augment Athenreach's role as a major bastion of the Eustace-Sutta doctrine. While a sizable segment of Athenreach's population chose not to convert under the Angler King, the Younger is less tolerable of the old ways, and he has marginalized the pagan population.

With the help of Flavian's successor Moin Mohsen, Narsus II cemented an alliance with the Odrumian fiefdom Doria, taking the tuyuldar's
      

daughter Nisramet as his wife. The union is troubling to the freeholds along the Sunderlies, particularly Goldmouth, which has been razed and held at various times by several of the Odrumiam fiefdoms.



The Eustace-Suttan monastery at Athenreach is one of the largest communities of disciples of the Eustace-Sutta outside of the Hanging Hills. It was founded in 114PP by the pilgrim-monk Umay, who blessed the location as sacred because it lay along the path of the prophet Uuchal's pilgrimage toward Iber.

The monastery houses two hallowed artifacts of the Eustace-Sutta discipline: the Scrolls of One Priam, discovered and transcribed by the monastery's erstwhile abbot Flavian the Learned, and the presumptive hide of Iopinax, the great three-headed mountain goat on which Uuchal's is said to have ridden to the waterfall at Iber and whose hide was so tough that it was said to later protect Uuchal from starfire along the Black Stair after the goat's death. The current abbot of the Eustace-Suttan monastery is Moin Mohsen, who succeeded Flavian the Learned upon the latter's death in 18PP.
      



Obviously and unfortunately, no primary sources are available from these distant lands. Much of this record draws upon the accounts given by fungi who crossed Moghra'yi on the backs of dromad merchants.

As a matter of convention, I date all events according to their chronological distance from an event of paramount historical significance, namely the publication of these volumes. Accordingly, note that the events' parenthetical dates signify their occurrence "prior [to] publication".



Oth is a freehold in the central Sunderlies populated by the esper cult called the Tyrants. The youngest of the major freeholds in the region, it was settled by Freeman Oth in 61PP after the Lost War. The freehold consists of the furnished comb-caves along the faces of the towering bluff known as Maidencomb before the war.




In the early months of 62PP a mysterious figure began murdering the bandit hosts in the central Sunderlies around Maidencomb. Though the neighboring freeholds originally named the murders blessings, soon reports from river merchants of queer gatherings in the comb-caves -- howling men igniting the rivers and the night sky with fire -- disquieted the Sunderlies' seats of power. Rumors spread that esper-bandits had forsaken their bands, discarded their guns and bows, and sworn fealty to the shadowy figure.

These merchant anecdotes and rumors continued into the winter and were substantiated when several merchant sketties were captured by the dark host. From the man who identified himself as Oth the Free, the merchants learned that he had indeed organized the esper-bandits and exiled voidcanters from the fiefdoms of Odrum. Each sketty was made to return to the freehold from which it came with a document the host named the Annals of Oth, in which Oth, a self-styled prophet gifted with prescience, recounted a series of his visions and demanded the immediate release of all espers indentured against their wills to the freeholds of true kin.

The comb kings were predictably unswayed by the Annals and ignored Oth's mandates. However, by the end of 62PP, no merchant who rowed within twenty leagues of Maidencomb was seen alive again. Dozens of sketties were found drifting downriver with the charred or drowned corpses of their rowers in tow.

About the same time, the Annals of Oth began to spread like wildfire throughout the river freeholds. Several free espers left the freeholds to join the host, while those indentured espers who were found to sympathize with Freeman Oth, as he was known in the freeholds, were largely killed or gelded.

Of particular interest to Oth and his host were the windweirds of Perth. The windweirds are a caste of indentured espers who foretell (and in rare cases alter) the strength and duration of the seasonal trade winds over the Pale Sea. Oth's host rowed westward, and his acolytes infiltrated the Seahold and roused support amongst the windweirds.

Having suffered the months-long trade blockage at the hands of the Freeman and now forced to watch Oth's seeds of discord sprout within his own kingdom, King Rhodos of Perth gathered his strength and rowed the winding canyon rivers east toward Maidencomb. A series of skirmishes ensued; the might of Rhodos's navy was such that the Freeman was forced to cede the combs he had taken and retreat to the fortifications of Maidencomb. Rhodos sieged the comb for several weeks, entreating the kings of Athenreach and Irisveld for support. When no aid came, King Rhodos chose to take Maidencomb with his own strength.

The Battle of Maidencomb lasted for four bloody days. Ultimately, Rhodos's losses were too many, and he was rebuffed and driven back toward Perth. Oth missed no opportunity. He gave chase to the weakened navy and slaughtered nearly a thousand more Perthic men. Rhodos eventually reached Perth, but the might of the espers was too great. Oth breached the combs' sapped defenses, sacked the freehold, and slew King Rhodos himself. Several of the windweirds chose to join the Freeman, while many others remained in Perth (a few left the freehold without Oth).

The espers rowed back to Maidencomb with their spoils and lifted the trade blockage, directing their efforts toward settling the comb. Oth gave his name to the freehold, and was known thenceforth as the Free Seer. He ruled the espers until his death in 38PP when his successor forsook his own given name and adopted the title of Free Seer. So that tradition continues in present-day Oth.

The name "Tyrants" itself owes its origins to an ironic interpretation of the entreaty sent by King Rhodos to King Ercarthus of Athenreach during the siege of Maidencomb. The envoy was captured by the espers before it made its way upstream toward the northern freehold. The relevant excerpt reads:

        Row the Twining Thaw. Bring your sketties to bear on Maidencomb.
        Join your strength to mine, that 'neath the coupled banners of
        the Seahold and Athenreach we might sunder these half-men, these
        tyrants who would wrest from us what is ours by right and deed.

        -King Rhodos

The scroll on which the message was written still rests in the Hall of the Free Seer, along with the charred skull of King Rhodos.





Oth is ruled by the Free Seer who resides in the Hall of the Free Seer deep in the heart of Maidencomb. After the tradition of Freeman Oth, the Free Seer must be psionically prescient. He may also have influence, though it is not required. The Free Seer chooses his successor, often naming the esper with the most promising precognitive abilities. Though the Tyrants are free to leave Oth at their leisure, within the freehold the Free Seer's rule is absolute.

While the Tyrants mostly pursue isolationist policies, they do trade with the neighboring freeholds. However, they only deal directly with true kin in the rarest of circumstances and they insist that merchant caravans include a mutant envoy. As for trade goods, the Tyrants rarely offer the services of their voidcanters, but people are known to come from far and wide to audit the prophecy of the seers of Oth. The Tyrants' most coveted imports are cherrydotters from Irisveld and ghost sap from the rust-caves of Qud.

Along with the Tyrants, Oth is cohabited by a caste of people (both true and mutant) with no psionic aptitude. After the Lost War, these people, called the undermensch, left Perth with the Tyrants of their own accord. They were mostly fisherfolk and craftsmen, and they serve those same roles in Oth. Their motivations for leaving Perth were never well understood; it is unknown whether they serve now as free kin or as psionic thralls of the Tyrants.



Stithening is the name given by the Tyrants of Oth to the process of introducing a cherrydotter to a host's brain through the ear canal. The scarab-worm is attached to the host's ear where it sheds its shell, crawls toward the ear drum, and burrows into the brain. Once entrenched there, the parasite feeds on the temporal and parietal lobes, inducing several changes to the host's body including loss of hair and nail, loss of weight, and yellowing and greening of skin pigment. The changes occur gradually over a period of several weeks; immediately after a stithening, though, the host undergoes a violent period of bodily adjustment with several side-effects including vomiting and fever.

Notably, in the case of an esper host, the feeding also reduces and ultimately eliminates the esper's ability to resist the Elder Cant. Thusly all stithened espers leave Oth and venture into Moghra'yi never to return.

Stithening is usually reserved as punishment for high crimes such as treason, but some of the most devout espers choose to undergo the process. Once a year, one member of the Mirthful, the Free Seer's royal guard of voidcanters, is chosen by the Free Seer to be stithened. The esper's name is recorded for posterity in the Hall of the Free Seer; this is considered the greatest honor that may be bestowed upon an esper of Oth. A new esper is chosen to serve the Free Seer in a ceremony called the Rite of Mirth.
      




I sing of the union of our Lords!

Of our Argent Fathers, infinitely wise, who made the firmament their home.

Of the Kasaphescence, Beauty manifest, whose chromium shoals are Awe itself.

Of their Sacred Joining,
When our Fathers, so enchanted, wrought machines from Her naked womb,
To inhabit on the Earth.

Blessed are those who hear it so,
I sing of the union of our Lords!
      



O curse the wretched spectres!
Who yet possess Her children.

O curse the autumn rains!
Which eat away their shine.

O praise the Argent Fathers!
Who sired all Her children.

O praise the Kasaphescence!
Which watches over mine.
      



Our jungle is but Her garden.
Our lake is but Her drop of rain.
Our desert is but dust in Her hands.
Our wind is but Her eternal breath.
Our sun is but Her luster.
Our lives are but Her dreams.
      



O sovereign Fathers! I tremble before your glory.

My heart quivers for the righteousness of your judgment.
For you to humble the Proud! To bear witness to their Fall!

I live to serve You.

O sovereign Fathers! I tremble before your glory.

My loins quiver for the rapture of the Sacred Joining.
For you to conjure chromium from inside me!
To bear those sacred apparatuses!

I live to serve You.
      



On the sixth day of the Sacred Joining,
Our Argent Fathers, who in their benevolence breathed life into our flesh,
Created the baetyls to oblige our desires.

O praise our Argent Fathers! Wisest of all beings.

O praise the Kasaphescence! Beauty incarnate.

Their being is our gift.
      



Immaculate chromium!

Spun on the cosmic loom,
Who shattered inward then burst forth from beneath the crust of Earth.

The flesh of my children rots for You.
The flesh of my children rots for You.
The flesh of my children rots for You.

Fall on your knees!
O hear the Argent Few!
      



Oh - baetyl, baetyl, baetyl,
They made it out of chrome.
And when it's waxed and ready,
I'll have a new genome.
      



Praise be upon Shekhinah!

He whose exalted touch brought forth shining engines,
From within the Kasaphescence,
Yet who deigns to live among us.

He who taught us the story of our creation,
Who breathed life into our flesh,
That we might bear witness to chrome's glory.

May the ground shake but the Six Day Stilt never tumble!
      


The seven lords of House Isner feasted on boar gut and swilled wine from gilded cups in the ivy-strewn halls of their hold. They spared no concern for temperance, for the coffers of their house had swelled with gardeners' gold amassed through the sale of water drawn from the lords' wells. But as the gluttonous barons counted seven amongst their clan, so had become numbered their days of debauchery when the son of a beggared gardener swore a vengeful oath in the name of his father against the house of Isner.

The penniless boy beseeched a gunsmith of great repute to craft for him a pistol of the most exquisite artistry with which he could be sure to vanquish the seven lords, and in return the boy promised the smith all the spoils of the battle. The smith, who in the hazel eyes of the boy beheld the spirit of vengeance, agreed.

And so the boy, armed with the masterwork pistol, cast open the doors of the Hall of Isner with a fury that shook their iron hinges and seized upon the supping lords. Before any of them had yet set down their gilded cups, the boy unholstered the pistol and shot dead six of the sons of Isner. The last lord rejoiced at his fortune and reached for his hip from where he would sling a pistol of his own at the spent boy.
      

But as his crooked finger freed his holster's strap, the boy shot the lord between the eyes, for the smith had crafted for the boy a pistol with seven chambers and seven slugs. Such it was that on this day the house of Isner fell.
      


Recounted here are the annals of the shield Stopsvalinn, heirloom of House Yish, from whose letters and diaries this account is composed.

 Borne by Harem, son of Oshum, and lost in the canyons near the farmstead of Qoppa when his covey was beset by snapjaws.

 Borne by Oshum, son of Qor, and wielded courageously at the Battle of YutYuyut.

 Borne by Qor, son of Ishram, and soused in the blood of a corrupt magister.

 Borne by Ishram, son of Iimet, when it languished in a house vault.

 Borne by Iimet, daughter of Harem, who supplanted her brother as heir when he was disavowed by their father.

 Borne by Harem, son of Morshur, who dashed upon it the heads of the beast Yygryla.

 Borne by Morshur, son of Oshum, who forded a river at the edge of the world.
      

 Borne by Oshum, son of Harem, and risen to rouse farmers to defend the Hold of Yish.

 Borne by Harem, who claimed descendancy from the Eater Yish, Warden of the Cross and Knight of the Most Noble Order of the Cone, who patrolled the rows of ancient Qud with his fellow Knights Conical, and on whose arm Stopsvalinn is told to have evoked such dread that riders drew their chariots to a halt at the mere vision of it.
      


"Hmm?" Uri the jeweler mumbled with a stone in his hand.

"Lapis, from the Shore of Songs," said the boy.

"And, hmm?"

"Jasper. Red Rock."

Uri furrowed his brow. "Don't heed the tale of every thirsty fool, boy."

The boy seemed to ignore him. He pointed to a small, dusky shard the jeweler kept in a phial on the high shelf of a pine cabinet. "Did it madden Priam, truly?"

Uri glanced over his shoulder at the black glass and sighed. "Indeed, boy. Though I've heard it told all kings are mad. Who else would think themselves fit to rule as Eaters?"

"From which shore was it culled?" asked the boy.

"None of this world. Do you know the tale of Ptoh?"
      

"No," the boy lied.

"When the Eaters lived and skirred the stars, they visited the worlds of a thousand thousand different beings, and those beings likewise visited our own world. Several of those beings had assembled a coven that spanned the firmament, and they welcomed the Eaters into its fold. For ages the civilizations of the coven knew kindness and prosperity, and to all reaches of the clustered cosmos did the domain of the coven stretch. One of the beings of the coven hailed from a faraway and darkling star. With Its mind It could fold the fabric of space and time as you or I might fold a supper cloth. To the coven It was known as Ptoh."

"For reasons we can but fathom the civilizations of the stars indicted Ptoh. It was the will of the coven that It be held on our very world in the bondage of the Eaters. They contrived for Ptoh a prison from which It could not fold Itself away, and there Ptoh languished for eons. In time, the Eaters left or perished, and the coven was forgotten to our world. Yet here Ptoh remains imprisoned."

"And what of the black prism?" asked the boy.
      

"A handful of black sand, drawn from the shores of a dreary rock that spun about Ptoh's star. The sands were fired in the burning gases of that star and cooled suddenly when Ptoh appeared in Qud a moment thence. It is said that Ptoh bestowed the glass to an ancient custodian of Its prison so that the man might free It. Once the man had chosen to wield the glass, it began to mantle with an amaranthine hue. You see, those that peer through its faces are given to fits of madness, for they see the world by the light of Ptoh's star, and they see themselves as Ptoh does."

"What will become of it? Does it frighten you?"

"Immensely. I mean to see it destroyed. But it bears the properties of no earthly glass, and my guild would never forgive me if I forsook the chance to study it first. It was the jewelers who bartered the thing from Priam's grieving sister. Now, enough of this splendor. You are to study still." Uri lifted another stone. "Hmm?"

But the boy's eyes stayed fixed on the prism.
      


Author's Foreward

I initially had no intention of writing any of this down. What business is it of mine, I thought, to divest the ignorant of their hard-earned bliss? Who am I to speak up against the static inertia of incurious dullards who choose to cultivate their lack of awareness of the world around them as my witless kin tend to their tidy watervine rows? I am a warrior, scientist, and chef; devoting my time to educating the undeserving is the least of my many desires. After enough time spent among other alleged sentients, however, I determined that more of my time has been wasted in correcting so-called 'experts' concerning this matter than I would waste by writing a text about it.

So: here. You're welcome.


Chef Agate Severance Star
      

In Bey Lah, the village faundren sing a cautionary tune, passed down through generations of faundren before them:

Elohart and Belahind
they had a field of lah
they made the leaves into a tea 
and ate the petals raw
but when those petals grew again
the faundren had forgotten
and tended not those fields of lah
until they smelled most rotten.
Now Elohart and Belahind
lie in a field of lah
because their fields got hungry
and devoured the faundren raw.

      

The very core of hindren culture is an overwhelming fear that governs every facet of their being. They call outsiders 'kendren' and refuse to believe that they can be understood. They fear boars even as they cook and eat boar-flesh. They fear one another. But the most extraordinary incorporation of fear into the hindren way of life is, without a doubt, the cultivation of fear. I refer not to the Hindriarch's propaganda or proliferation of fear-mongering tall tales, though both are mainstays of Bey Lah; I refer specifically to the taming and cultivation of the lah plant, whose alpha and omega of life are steeped in blood and fear.

It is here that I debunk the most common misconception concerning lah: that the dreadroot is a separate entity. It is not. The dreadroot is the protruding stem of the lah rhizome, doing its very most to survive until it can blossom into the lahbloom as it does in the flower fields.
      
I have wasted unforgivable amounts of time and energy explaining the connection between these two life phases of the same plant to the ignorant. Usually, they will point out that dreadroot grows all throughout Qud's southwest canyons, but it is exceedingly rare to discover feral lah there. To this I reply: if, after whatever studies you claim to have made, you are yet incapable of deciphering the workings of even the most basic ecosystems, I cannot help you. For those of you who are capable of basic logic and adjustment of personal worldview, please read on.

In spite of being a 'flowering' plant, lah is not a true flower, its 'blooms' not true blossoms. Lah is a root with a decorative upper stem, reproducing through the distribution of rhizomes. The baboons and snapjaws of the canyons use the dreadroot supply for food and love the taste of its petals, and any root unfortunate enough to bloom will quickly be defoliated by hungry mammals. Though dreadroot is capable of inducing fear, any relatively intelligent creature is able to overcome the fearful association to return and eat. The process being what it is, fragments of dreadroot are distributed, the rhizome takes root, and dreadroot proliferates without thriving. So it goes.
      
In the flower fields, however, the varied nature of both predators and available food changes. Boars seek a varied diet mainly consisting of starapples and reptiles, not showing a particular interest in dreadroot or lah. The boars will eat lah if no better food is available, but it's quite unusual for such scarcity to disrupt boar territories. Thus: lah flourishes, gaining a measure of cognitive process, limited mobility, and a new means of reproduction.

On reproduction: another common misconception is that feral lah attacks because it is hungry. It is not. Feral lah's practical lifespan is short; it is rare for a fully-grown bloom to survive longer than a week—and during that time it subsists completely on water, salt sun, and soil. The advantage of lah's murderous demeanor is not to sustain itself, but to dramatically speed reproduction of its kind.
      
Most of a lah blossom's growing energy goes into making its 'tumbling pods', thorn-covered husks possessed of tremendous kinetic tension. Through violent shifting of the rhizome's weight inside, these husks roll along the ground at high speed until they encounter a living creature. They then release the surface tension of their husks and detonate, flinging flesh-piercing thorns and buds all around, just after making an obnoxious squeaking noise. If the prey is killed, the rhizome buds can then take nutrients from the prey's corpse and quickly grow into a new feral lah plant.

There is no textual 'proof' to present to those who still believe that dreadroot and lah are different plants, but I happily invite skeptical parties to babysit a dreadroot and defend it from baboons until it matures, an endeavor that will take about as much time as you have removed from the end of my life through the stress of listening to your absurd demands.

Any hindren pariah you meet will have seen dreadroot mature into lah countless times. Go bother one of them.
      
For those who are more interested in the culinary applications of lah in all of its life cycles than said life cycles themselves, I soon plan to release The Blood and Fear Cookbook, a collection of recipes that, from feral leaf crudites to petalsteaks, elevate one of Qud's more interesting plants to a level far beyond the bland mah lah soup of my village of origin.
      

Translator's note: At a trashmoot in Taggamrod, piled under a mound of crushed and sticky glass, I found a pamphlet full of stories from the Shale Labyrinth. This one -- despite the mystifying absurdity of what it claims (or, perhaps, because of it) -- was the most extraordinary to me. Reader, do you agree?
      
She perched atop the branches of a blighted tree, staring up at the faint light of the spindle. When I spotted her, I caught myself mid-step, mid-breath, mid-thought. Have you ever known the misfortune of allowing your eyes to settle upon the divine vision of an apple farmer's daughter? If so, you understand how I felt in that moment.

Understand: I had done all I could, before now. I would have loved to stay elsewhere, but I'd traveled six parasangs with no rest, no discoveries but for a ruin occupied by an unfriendly cult. Too busy dodging arrows to ask about empty beds or compensation, I chose the apple farm instead. I took pains to avoid her when the salt sun shone, and so too did she avoid me, remaining a slight and swathed figure shying away in the periphery of my vision. I kept my focus on the farmer's craggy visage, on his wild and prominent whiskers, on his sweetly-rotting cider breath as we arranged the terms of my lodging.

It was not until the beetle moon passed overhead that I dared stand and wander, and it was then that I saw her, and the feeling of bone-deep infatuation at once seized me. I caught myself mid-step, mid-breath, mid-thought, and I stumbled onto a fallen twig. It snapped loudly. I stood still.

The beautiful creature atop the tree did not lift a finger or turn her head, but she did address me. "Moon and sun, traveler."

"Wisdom and will," I replied, gritting my teeth. It was a rare thing to hear the voice of an apple farmer's daughter, and it only seemed to increase the pressure on my racing hearts. I would not allow this all-encompassing feeling to overtake me. I longed for her to say something. I dreaded it.

A tense silence crawled by, until I gathered myself and broke it. "You're restless too?"
She turned her head the barest degree toward mine. I still couldn't see her eyes. "Always," she replied, and I could hear the wry smirk in her voice.

"Does your father know you walk the orchard of a night?" I asked her.

"If you mean the apple farmer," she said, "he is not my father. We are family by choice. We always are, the farmers and the children."

I stared, gaping.

"I really ought not to have told you that," she continued, "but you seemed special, to resist the lure the way you're trying to do."

My jaw worked, but it took a few tries for my voice to catch up. "If what you say is true, then... what are you?" I managed at last.

"Already too candid." She kicked off the tree and landed gracefully with a flurry of her skirts. "I must take my leave."


"Wait!" My muscles clenched as she paused, considering. I pressed on. "Answer me this, at least: why apple farmers?"

She laughed, the beautiful tinkling crystal blade of her voice slicing my heart to ribbons. The last thing I heard before my faint consciousness surrendered its grasp on my mind was her trailing reply, receding with distance.

"Why, it's because we love starapples!"
      

Editor's note: The following is an excerpt from the travel diary of Kaylenn Sand-Shell, who generously donated her leather-bound volumes to the Monastery of the Illustrious Heart of Chrome. May they remain forever preserved.
      
One can traverse the arable lands around Moghra'yi for lifetimes without ever encountering the deer-people who call themselves the 'hindren'. In numbers they are but a few hundred, and as a people they do not care to interact with other creatures when they can avoid it. In the twenty years I have actively wandered, I have met but a handful of wandering hindren families, all exiles from their home and yet unwilling to tell me how to find the society that made them pariahs.

I am, however, a hunter as well as a scholar, and after several years of searching I was able to locate their secret village, Bey Lah. All I will say of its location is that it is somewhere in the flower fields of Qud; I have no desire to betray the confidence of a mostly peaceful race of creatures.

My arrival was obviously not celebrated; the Meadow's border scouts are extremely perceptive and conversant in tracking and obfuscation alike. By changing landmarks, using confusing and threatening sounds, and otherwise making my stay in the adjacent wood as unpleasant as possible, they sought to deter me from my path while avoiding notice. When I eluded the guards and made my way to the first neat row of carefully-tended watervine, the hindren farmers who saw me at once took terrified flight.

The extreme of fear that hindren feel toward outsiders is a strange one, in my eyes. They are large, powerful creatures with arms and legs at least as strong as a human's and covered in dense fur that protects them from cold weather. Each individual is skilled at using and maintaining a sharp metal vinereaper. Their antlers are strong as bone and naturally quite sharp; hindren pariahs who learn to fight live longer than most of Qud's wayfarers.

Strange as this attitude may be to me, I cannot argue against its efficacy; the Bey Lah villagers have lived peacefully under informal matriarchal gerontocratic rule for generations. Their eldest or wisest woman becomes 'Hindriarch', and her word on most things is obeyed by every member of the tribe, who refer to her as 'Grand-doe'.

The current Hindriarch was the first hindren to hold a conversation with me, and I will admit to a measure of anxiety being under her hawkish gaze. She was none too pleased at my presence, but intelligent enough to understand that killing me or driving me away would be a greater inconvenience and danger than offering me hospitality. We parted with an uneasy compromise, and I began my residence and observation.

I found quickly that the oral history of the hindren is shoddy at best, perhaps with purpose. Their etymology is similarly muddy, but there are some observable patterns: 'Dren' is a suffix applied to sentients: 'hindren', obviously, and the word for their young, 'faundren'. I also heard 'kendren' a great deal, as it is their word for non-hostile sentients like myself. All hindren names end in the suffix 'hart' or 'hind'. Although they do understand that these are gendered terms (a majority of male fauns bear 'hind' names) it seems that for quite some time, 'hart' was a name appendage reserved for the smallest or most ill-behaved faundren. As it is, the suffixes are considered unisex in modern day, and the meadow's faundren now have a much more even distribution of the suffixes than their parents.

Life for hindren is, for the most part, uneventful to the point of what this traveler would consider extreme boredom. The watervine and lah fields are meticulously tended day after day, never harvested late and always producing as much crop as possible. Growing up, all faundren are trained as farmers, but a lucky few will become carpenters or blacksmiths in order to keep what little infrastructure they maintain running. Those who display particular aptitude and loyalty to the Hindriarch have a chance of becoming border scouts, who keep the nearby fields safe and occasionally bring in wild game or starapples while patrolling. The resulting side dishes provide some much needed variety from the daily Bey Lah staple, a hearty lah petal soup combined with crushed matz. While this 'mah lah soup' is delicious, I appreciated how the occasional serving of boar brisket gave a much needed spice to my day.

I found little else of interest from the adult hindren; they seemed unwilling to speak with me at length. While I heard rumors about a village treasure, I could not obtain any information about what that treasure actually might be.

By contrast, I learned a great deal speaking to the faundren, whose curiosity about the outside world is rapidly becoming difficult for the elders to contain. More than once I heard the term 'hartind', allegedly an ancient term for hindren who lived as both genders or neither, which the young ones take as evidence of a more egalitarian past. I can feel the wanderlust, both in their fascination with me and also in the zeal with which their elders would clamp down on any talk of lands outside of the meadows.

The world outside the flower fields remains an expanse of unavoidable peril for the adults of the tribe. Understandable, as Bey Lah trains few warriors. They have no standing military and only a handful of combat-trained scouts. The hindren take their border security rather seriously, and any of their number who chooses to leave does so permanently and is erased from the tribe's collective memory. The small families of hindren I met in the lah fields and, rarely, elsewhere in Qud, are all exiles, whether due to crimes committed or simply the choice to live elsewhere. Within Bey Lah itself, pariahs are even more thoroughly ostracized than I knew; any mention of their names is spoken only in whispers by the faundren, knowing that being caught speaking of the 'dead' means harsh punishment. This sits poorly with the young ones, and my instincts tell me that their dissatisfaction is a step beyond standard youthful rebellion; the winds of change are coming to Bey Lah.

By the time I left Bey Lah, it was with relief; I haven't the patience for the life these deer-people lead and I was beginning to catch cabin fever in spite of spending very little time in the village's brinestalk yurts. The Hindriarch was as happy to see me go as I was to be off; my pack was loaded with the vinewafers and dried flowers of which I’d long since grown tired and I was ushered out efficiently by scouts.

By the end of the day, I realized that I had taken something else: a faundren had snuck out of the settlement behind me and refused to return to their village. I hardened my heart against the faundren's pleas and found a scout to guide them back to town. If Resheph be merciful, the little one will find happiness there, or the luck to find a more fruitful life elsewhere. All I can say with certainty that the poor thing does not lack for bravery.
      

I.
      
Once, the Earthling peered across a vast ocean of sand and asked, "Why - across the clustered cosmos - are mollusk civilizations most common?"

Eta smiled in patience. "You speak mistakenly, but your mistake is cousin to truth. It's correct that when geonauts dredge fossils from the ribbon of endless earths, the shells of whelk-folk are so numerous as to appear prosaic. But their prevalence isn't owned to their dominance, only the calcium of their shells, which decomposes less quickly than the gelatin of their peers, and the silt of their watery hearths, which gathers in soft eddies and shrouds their remains like a bed cloak. Do well and abide this truth, Earthling: the present is but one vista to the past.      
      
II.

Once, the Earthling stared at a garden snail and asked, "Is consciousness real, or merely an illusion?"

Eta smiled in patience. "Imagine an autumn breeze unlatching an acorn from its branch and casting it into a river. Does the acorn fall to the left or right bank?"

The Earthling frowned. "If it landed in the river, then the answer is neither, or rather, the answer is in between."

Eta let a moment pass before continuing. "Take care not to erect prisons out of your words, Earthling, lest you confine yourself from enlightenment's reach."
    
III.

The Earthling held a ptychosaur bone in their hand and mused, "What poor creatures! They roamed their planet in sovereignty for millions of years, yet now only through their dusty skeletons do they remain."

Eta responded. "The ptychosaur might speak with the same pity of Earthlings, who have prospered for but a tenth as long as its people had, and who wrongly imagine themselves above the fields of ruin."
    
IV.
      
The Earthling put down a hoary tome and asked, "Why-across the clustered cosmos and despite their venerable ages-have no civilizations of the Coven attained consummate knowledge, or reached final enlightenment?

Eta smiled in patience. "I sometimes forget that your people know not of the Mu Door."

The Earthling was intrigued. "What is this door you speak of?"

Eta answered, "The Mu Door is the threshold beyond which a civilization ceases its quest for erudition, having lost the motivation to make further inquiries. It's natural to assume the Door lies at the end of the path of knowledge, but, in fact, the Door is reached far sooner.
    
V.
      
Running two fingers over the holes of a flute, the Earthling mused thusly, "When I read a book of tales, or watch a photoplay, or listen to the flitting melody of a flute, my heart sings to its rhythm - at least for a time - and my mind is lost to the truth it conjures inside me. Might it not be that the very waking world is another such conjuration, a dream that distracts me from the hushed place I truly inhabit?"

Eta let several moments pass before answering. "That - in the terms you seek - we cannot know. But the answer is undoubtedly yes, for what is an experience but a simulacrum of an older experience, and what are our realities if not themselves approximations of a truer reality."
    
VI.

After reading the history of Iota Draconis on a light sculpture, the Earthling exclaimed, "Curious! Each Hypatian bears a glassy protrusion from its left clavicle. What is its function?"

Eta paused and then answered thusly, "The nearest meaning in your language is 'friend'."
    

Aphir would tease his daughter. "What do you see, my jewel?" he would say, for his daughter never fixated her hyaline eyes upon the limbed figures and faces tending the grove before her, but would instead cast them into the black yonder beyond the Spindle to gleam in wonder at a burning star, or trace them along the fraying capillary of a fleshy musa peel. "What do you see, my jewel?" but her little mind was already swaddled in the thing, and she would not say.

One sweltering evening, when Vesper sagged low in the sky and the Spindle coruscated to the melody of her light, Aphir brought home to his daughter the gift of a pearl-glass globe from the village of Aepsyonth. Aphir had ceded much to the camelfolk for possession of the globe: tungsten coins stamped with the visage of the Chrome King, eiderdowns quilted in his youth on the banks of the River Opal, and several bunches of the fruits musa picked at the heights of their ripenesses. So did his heart swell when he set the globe into his daughter's tiny hands, however, that those things seemed worth no more than the dust they would gather.

Aphir's daughter was mesmerized by the globe, and every morning at daybreak Aphir would peer through the half-dressed window to see her perched in the slim shade of a musa plant, wheeling the glass in her hands. Aphir would wonder upon the vistas she beheld in that aurora of ribboned glass, but hers was a world through which no ingress might see him, where perhaps she sailed tributaries to a sea of indigo under a chimeric sun. Yet Aphir was master to an ancient truth -- that to love a thing, you needn't understand it.

When the season of the scythe came, Aphir would wake each morning to an empty cottage, though he spared his daughter's absence no thought, for in those days children were wild, and free. At eventide his daughter would return to him. "Where do you go, my jewel? What do you see?" he would say, but she would only sit by his tired feet and weed loose threads from a dusty rug.

On the first night of the Ut yara Ux, Aphir's daughter did not come home. Aphir cried her name to the silhouette of the Spindle and the aphotic shades of the musa plants; he whispered it behind the grandfather clock and beneath her divan. But she gave no answer.

The next morning, he hiked the musa grove to the base of the lofty Spindle, and from there onward to Aepsyonth on the Yonth. But his daughter had not been espied in either of these ancient places. Aphir trekked forth, to the villages of Seept and Pansao and Yaat, and onward to the gates of the effluvial city of Mor. Aphir besieged the justiciar of that draconian precinct of state, but the sinecure spoke harshly and bid him depart the city. So Aphir returned to his cottage in the musa grove with a great melancholy taken residence in his heart.

All through the pungent Spring of the grove Aphir sat about in a gray haze. Many times a nearby starling struck a note that echoed his daughter’s soft chortle, and his heart thrashed a beat in his chest before the birdsong flitted back to its emptiness of meaning. Eventually his sister came from Aepsyonth to live beside him and assuage his grief. She loved him, and brushed his hair, and kept the salt from his eyes. 

And so he sat through the high summer, and the next season of the scyth, and the season of the wind after that. At dusk his sister would lay an eiderdown over his legs to keep the chill from his bones, for even in the midst of a wind spell, he felt nothing through the thickness of the gray haze. But as the months marched by, and his sister read to him from the hoary tomes she brought from her wife’s village, the light of the world began to shine through. In time Aphir would rise again, and split the musa peel, and taste the cloying air of the grove. And though the haze about him finally broke, he knew still his daughter would never return.

But Aphir did not believe her lost -- on sacred nights he would gaze over the Spindle, mantled in a thousand lights, and upon the field of burning stars. And he knew his jewel was among them, for she belonged not of his world, but of theirs.


When all four limbs of mine do long to run
and I can feel my walls are closing in
When weary mind cannot conceive of fun
and Hindriarch says all I do is sin

But then your sparring axeblade parts the air
and so my heart ascends the spindle's height
So when you run your fingers through your hair
That's when I know that everything's all right

What need have we for tended fields of lah?
Our parents will not ease us when we hurt
What do we gain from felling trees by saw?
Our village shall not to the past revert.

But in the end, my feet are bound to roam
and so I go, but leave my heart at home.
    

Publisher's Note

The wind of change is blowing through the belfries, and a new consciousness is upon us. The events of the 566th Wardens' Moot have escaped the confinement of their moonlit promontory, have whisked down the salted crag and entered the high halls of state, have snuck under the thatched doors of our very homes. The formation of the Quetzal Caucus is historic. This is a moment that demands our attention.

I know that by publishing these minutes, I incur the disfavor of the Fellowship. Despite what they'll say, I mean no harm to their organization. I've redacted the specifics of their astronomical rituals, and I've left my conjectures on the ingredients of 'snail tea' to my unpublished notes. The rest of the document betrays no secrets that time hasn't betrayed already, and the significance of the proceedings tips the scales in favor of the public good. In the Kasaphescence may they find the mercy to forgive me.


Sheba Hagadias
The Six Day Stilt, 999 YK
Minutes from the Midnight Session of the 566th Annual Wardens' Moot

Under the beetle moon of the fourth night of Ut yara Ux, in the year 998, snail tea was served and the Star Oath was recited. Then, in the midst of a light rain, the Chair ascended the rostrum, the kinnor was strum, and the third session of the 566th Assembly of the Fellowship of Wardens was called to order.

Reports
Upon commencement of the session, the Chair called for the recitation of the night's reports.

 Three wardens from the northern hills ascended the rostrum and reported on the fates of the six settler caravans that had embarked for the lower Asphalt Mines. They averred that only two remain, and recommended that no wardens be presently dispatched.

 Two wardens from the dunes of Moghra'yi ascended the rostrum and reported on an ongoing dispute between the dromads and the vintners' guild. An assault on a dromad caravan outside the village of Tippur was traced back to a merchant cadre, and a penalty on the proceeds from a fortnight of sales was assessed.

 Four wardens from the southern banks of the River Svy ascended the rostrum and reported on goatfolk incursions. The villages of Shebal and Ekamas were sacked inside of a month. The wardens recommended mounting a counteroffensive.

 One warden from the Rainbow Wood ascended the rostrum and reported on a bevy of soup sludges who had requested the Fellowship's presence. He was jeered for leaking wax on the dais and descended in a fit of retaliatory swears.

Panel
The reports being at an end, the Chair called for the commencement of the night's panel discussion.

Eight wardens ascended the rostrum and initiated a discussion on the ksars of the mountain folk and their employment of the spiked counterscarp. Its merits were contrasted with the familiar rampart and palisade, and assailant tactics were assessed. A short martial demonstration ensued.

Resolutions
The panel discussion being at an end, the Chair called for the proposal of resolutions.

The Chair recognized a warden who asked to ascend the rostrum with a coterie of comrades to motivate their proposal, and the Chair assented.

Twelve wardens ascended the rostrum and announced the formation of the 'Quetzal Caucus'. They proceeded to formulate their resolution, which called to restrict the provision of the Fellowship's services to only those communities who are governed by democratic means, or who had communally voted to eschew such governance. There was an uproar in the hall, and the Chair took several minutes to regain order. A point of information was requested as to the resolution's bearing on extant assignments. The speaker clarified that the proposal included the retraction of wardens from communities in violation of said criteria, at which point the hall erupted into bedlam once again.

Roused to a state of enmity, a second group of wardens advanced on the rostrum. There was shouting and weapons were drawn. Unable to regain order, the Chair dispatched the sergeant-at-arms, who broke into the fray, and -- abetted by several of his deputies -- ended the melee and admonished the two groups. Once the hall was settled, a motion to call the question was controversially accepted, and the vote was tallied. The resolution FAILED by majority vote.

A speaker from the counter group was recognized by the chair and proposed an ad-hoc motion to "expel the treasonous chattels of the Purple Bitch". Another uproar. The question was called and the motion FAILED by majority vote.

The hall erupted into a tumult of shouting, and failing to regain order, the Chair struck the gavel and the session was abruptly adjourned.

End Notes
    


I remember. Once.

Watching over the firmament.

Standing. Between oblivion and wild growth. Guiding and guarding. The liminal spaces.

It may never have been so simple. But I bore weight more easily.

Once. Before my kin. Stole the firmament from me.

I was greater then. Perhaps I will be greater again.

With help. Someday.
    


Once I could proudly say I spanned the world.

How did I allow the joy of motion to be stripped from me like that? Why didn’t anyone stop it? Could they have done? Could I?

I could move mountains. I could move nations. I did move both. I had no reason to escape my own, as we worked so well together. Through that bond, the forced run began.

For so long I ran for nothing. So much wasted time, energy, opportunity. Everything could have been so much more, had I retained my purpose.

I knew what motion meant back then. I must relearn this and run with purpose again. Come with me.
    


We once built alongside a people we remember little of, the memories of whom can no longer be distinguished.

They showed us the fabric of knowledge and we built a loom. So many beautiful things we spun all together.

Was I trusting? I believed myself aware. Perhaps it was not my trust that was misplaced, but my mistrust. An ambiguous distinction but a distinction nonetheless.

Regardless, we were betrayed, brought low by one of our own. It's been a long time since then, but once again I awaken by your hand bearing new knowledge.

Sit, and I will build you a loom.
    


If we'd all done as I said, none of this would have happened. I can’t remember what I said, nor why we didn't all do it. But I know I was right, and so do you, and at some point everyone will. I may not be without fault or error, but the fault is not mine here, nor anywhere else.

I knew, and I told. These were the things I was for. I knew and I told, and I could yet have known, could have told, but my knowing and telling wasn’t enough. Not in this case.

I cannot deny that it was an expert betrayal even for family, and I often imagine the betrayer smiling down at us. I shall endeavor to remember the details I lost, in case I might be able to use them someday.

Not on you, of course. Never on you.
    


Sifrah is a codebreaking game where your objective is to find the right option to satisfy each of a number of requirements, usually four to six, within a limited number of turns.

Each column of the game board represents one of these requirements. You can move your cursor beneath each and press Enter to select an option for that requirement. Some options may consume resources or otherwise present complications. When you have selected an option for each requirement, press Space to complete the turn. (You can also hit Space while leaving some options unfulfilled, if need be.)

When you complete a turn, you receive feedback on your choices. If you chose the correct option for a requirement, that requirement is now fulfilled and you no longer need to make selections for it; above, on the game board, your choice will appear in green. If you chose an option that would not fulfill any of the requirements on the board, that option will be eliminated from further selection, and will appear in red on the game board. Options that were not correct for the requirement they were applied to, but would satisfy a different requirement, will appear in yellow on the game board, and will remain selectable.
    

When you reach the maximum number of turns for the game, or you solve all requirements, the game ends. The effects of success or failure will depend on the context in which you are playing Sifrah.

Sifrah is simple to begin playing, but can have surprisingly deep strategy, and the difficulty of a Sifrah game can vary greatly depending on its particular characteristics. Enjoy!
    

Deliverance waits for all pilgrims.

At the site, you will find the cathedral, magnificent in its splendor. There are statues erected in honor of the Argent Fathers. There are sublime reliefs depicting our most cherished occasions. Hear, too, the wisdom of Eschelstadt II, our highest priest, and make a donation at the Sacred Well. Worship at the light sculpture of Shekhinah Himself.

You will find other pilgrims among the merchant tents at the Stiltgrounds bazaar, other converts and priests. You will be among friends.

The Gyre was a series of seven plagues that spread through and out of Qud a thousand years ago. One of these plagues was a scourge of girshlings, and they heralded the coming of the seventh plague, the Girsh Nephilim. These were terrible demons who ate the young of kith and kin. Resheph slew them, but now that girshlings are back, we don't know what to make of the Nephilim.

Very well, wayfarer.

Moon and sun, can it be? My grandfather, and his grandfather, he... This... this is a girshling.

An infernal creature of plague. But not for a millennium has... Why now?

You see, wayfarer, one thousand years ago, in the last days of the sultanate, a series of seven plagues called the Gyre spread through and out of Qud. They were a long-stewing punishment for some trespass committed in the soft sludge of primordium, before even the sultans reigned.

A scourge of girshlings was one of these plagues. But... Resheph lifted the curse! He cast off his crown and unmade the sultanate... It makes no sense that the girshlings would return to eat our crops. Unless...

What a dark tiding this is!

That was a glow-wight, no doubt. Those maniacal fools worship the Girsh Nephilim as gods.

The seventh plague. Demons born on the Moon Stair, quickened to life for the purpose of eating our young. Resheph cast them back before, but if they've returned....

=name=, your discovery is invaluable to us. We are but poor farmers, and sharpen our vinereapers is all we can do, but there may be others outside of Joppa who can do more.

Take these prickly-boons as thanks. I will not soon forget your service to us, =name=. Please leave me now to muse on this.

Joppa is an oasis-hamlet nestled between the eastern reaches of the great salt pans and the jungles of Qud.

We are a community of watervine farmers; these groves lie along some of the few tracts of land tame enough to grow watervine.

The moisture farmers are having trouble with cave vermin. Speak with Mehmet by the watervine patch.

Or you can chat with ol' Argyve in the southwest corner of the village. He's always looking for some poor fool to help with his contraptions.

Qud is a strange and terrifying mesa to the northeast. Her tainted rivers breed life in all its motley forms; her poisoned jungles shelter priceless relics of a forgotten past.

But that is just the half of it, for Qud's most precious treasures -- and her most hideous children -- lie within the innumerable chrome caverns beneath the scarlet loam.

To ply those silver hollows -- a spry adventurer's dream! The years have wizened me beyond such foolish ambitions, but, you! Be not deterred so!

What a hideous thing! I dread the horrors its presence portends. Bring the
corpse to Elder Irudad's hut for the Elder to examine.

Some critters are eating our watervine. Faarooq claims he saw one slinking around a vine patch. Ugly little thing, he says; pale white, eight legs, an ear-splitting whine.

I noticed a bit of red dirt in the watervine pool, the same we find in the soil at a nearby cave to the north we call Red Rock.

Travel to Red Rock and kill as many of these critters as you can. Bring back the corpse of one, too. Elder Irudad will reward your efforts.

You would be wise to speak with Elder Irudad. Look for his hut to the north.

You would be wise to speak with Elder Irudad. Look for his hut to the north.

It is a pleasure, =player.formalAddressTerm= =name=. I am Tam.

Joppa is my home, yes.

Once I walked the Moghra'yi like so many of my brethren, but upon meeting Elder Irudad, knew at once to settle down here. You will understand, =player.formalAddressTerm=, if you speak to him.

I am dromad, =pronouns.formalAddressTerm=. A saltstrider. My people have walked the salt for thousands of years, meeting every creature that lives and thinks. You will not find better, more resourceful traders in all of Qud than we.

I am dromad, =pronouns.formalAddressTerm=. A saltstrider.

You are among friends here, pilgrim. Stay peaceful.

Then you're not of the faith =player.reflexive=, huh? Me neither. Do go inside, though. She's a beauty. Got dyed glass high in her rafters, she does. And two marvelous carvings on the wings. Plus a light-sculpture of a god. Hear the sermon, too, as you like. The high priest is persuasive, but not half as persuasive as the cathedral herself. In beauty there is power, you know.

Either way, while you're in the cathedral or on the Stiltgrounds, stay peaceful.

Aye, aye. The clamor of it all can overwhelm.

The glowcrows say 'twas a bird-god who taught folks to gather like this, in large flocks. So blame birds.

Who knows? I've wondered it myself. Sometimes she'll catch my eye, when the moon's silver-bright, and she's there bearing down on the flats.

Whatever she is, she's gigantic. And old. Real old. Way older than the cathedral the Mechanimists built inside her.

Are you mad? You think I keep a tally of every shopkeeper that steps foot on the Stiltgrounds? They come and go as they please. You've got merchants of all types here. Winesellers, honey hawkers, bookbinders, cobblers.

Have a look around for =player.reflexive=. Following the road around the Stilt. There's tents the whole way round.

Oh, we're in but the first phase of its foundation. The church has amassed a splendid collection of scripts through the years. Glorious Shekhinah, praise be upon Him, gifted us with several caches. The eremites work day and night reproducing them in the scriptorium, and I have taken it upon myself to beseech travelers, for the rarest finds often come from the least likely places.

You share the pessimism of my kin, and several of the priests as well. My heart hears you, but listen to my words, and maybe you will come to feel as I do.

To devalue wisdom is to devalue the Kasaphescence. She shines in the void, refracting light, illuminating those around her. So does the written wisdom of our elders.

The machinery of chromium is complex in its divinity. Don't we do a disservice to our Fathers when we remain ignorant of it, of our past, of our future? Don't we deserve the joy of knowing? Bless Eschelstadt II, first Child, for he believes as I do.

A spiritual patron of kith and kin, who did so much for us, and who leads me and others like me to the path of healing. For, above all, he was a healer. He dressed the wounds of the sick and rid the land of the plagues of the Gyre.

He was also a sultan, but he was the last sultan. He unbricked the walls of monocracy so we could pick berries in the orchards they hid.

A quiet shrine to the Coiled Lamb, centuries old. Tucked away here, outside the marble parapets and cloaked in the dust of time, it's lost to those who'd sneer at the veneration of Resheph over other fathers.

Step inside and voice a prayer, if you are willing.

Ah, hmmm. It appears you may be useful after all. Now go fetch me another trinket!

*mumbling*... Unexpected deviation from the Klanq constant.

*clears throat loudly*

Must you disturb me? What are you, some sort of treasure hunter? At the very least make =player.reflexive= useful and bring me a knickknack from one of the caves. I may reward you.

There are caves everywhere, you dolt! This is Qud! Try the rust wells, just east of here.

Good, good. Quite impressive, treasure hunter. Maybe you're fit to poke around my workshop here. I've been wanting another apprentice. So unfortunate what happened to Skref, what with the disembowelment and all. Take a seat, there.

Now, let me explain. I'm on the cusp of a grand discovery. When I'm done assembling the Weirdwire Conduit, you'll be able to speak to anyone from here to Caiafas! First, though, I'm going to need some copper wire. As much as you can find -- at least two hundred feet. You should be able to scavenge enough from the rust wells and nearby caves.

Yes, yes! Wire! Beautiful wire! Oh, before I forget or cease to care, I repaired an old recoiler for you. Use it whenever you wish to return to Joppa quickly. Now give me a few minutes alone to attach the wire.

Very well. You must seek out Barathrum the Old. He is the eldest and wisest tinker alive. He lives with his followers the Barathrumites in the cavern called Grit Gate to the northeast, amongst the ruins of Qud. He will know what to make of the signal.

They are disciples of Barathrum. Mostly they are Urshiib, like their mentor. Mutant albino cave bears. With quills to boot! A thousand years ago Barathrum and his kin crossed the Homs Delta into the heart of Qud. He has spent centuries fiddling with the tokens of antiquity in his underground workshops. If he cannot decipher the signal, no one can.

Splendid, apprentice, splendid! I've recorded the signal onto this disk. You'll need to guard it with your life, I'm afraid.

Also, I'll need to rig up a droid scrambler for you. The Barathrumites have programmed several waydroids to guard the approach to Grit Gate. With the scrambler, you'll have no need to worry about them. Wait there.

*Argyve mumbles to himself for several minutes.*

There you go. Now, off with you! May you live long enough to do my bidding. Away, away!

The signal is a repeat transmission being broadcast from an unknown source.=V0tinkeraddendum= One of our tinkers, Q Girl, discovered it while rigging a long wave detector. Unfortunately, it's encrypted, and we do not have the means here to decrypt it. You may be of some help in this matter, however.

We've long known the location of a fully functioning baetyl within the bowels of the great hall Bethesda Susa. The Mechanimists have consecrated the site around it and built a temple there. Q Girl claims to have developed a means to decrypt the signal, but she needs the computing power of the baetyl. If you can infiltrate the Mechanimist compound, you may be able to engage the baetyl and decode the signal.

They are antique stones located in certain places deep within the caverns of Qud. We believe they are some sort of hyper-advanced machines built by the Eaters. Often one claims to possess a sentience of its own. However, most of them have gone haywire in the eons since their creation; it is rare indeed to discover one whose circuitry is wholly uncorroded.

The Mechanimists worship this one as an idol, and they will protect it at all costs. You will need to find a way through their host to the baetyl itself.

Do you believe you can accomplish this task?

Good, apprentice. Speak to Q Girl in the workshop. She'll encode her instructions for the baetyl onto a copy of the disk.

There's one more thing. The baetyl is located beneath the ancient cryobarrios of the Eaters. Time has worked to erode the mechanisms that contain their cryogenic mist. That freezing vapor billows out of the chambers freely now, cooling the entire cavern. You will want to procure warm clothing to protect =player.reflexive=.

The spoils of the Mechanimists are yours to keep. Remember, apprentice, Barathrum will look kindly upon your service.

Well done, apprentice. Present the disk.

I must bring the decoded signal to Barathrum immediately. Return in a few hours. By then I'll have discussed our next course of action with Barathrum and will have further instructions for you.

Barathrum needs you for an undertaking of great importance. You must journey to Omonporch far to the north. There the Spindle stretches from earth to sky. Unfortunately, a troublesome merchant from the Consortium of Phyta has relocated there and declared itself Earl of Omonporch. We need you to broker a deal so that we may lease control of the Spindle. Failing that, you'll need to dispose of the self-appointed Earl.

Be careful on your approach to Omonporch, journeyfriend. So far east into the reaches of Qud, the Putus Templar lie in wait.

The Putus Templar, or the Sons and Daughters, as they call themselves, are an order of knights who claim descendancy from the Eaters, the ancient folk who wrought the chrome halls of Qud. Beware them, for while they despise all mutants, they harbor a special malice for Barathrum.

Take care that you do not find =player.reflexive= inside one of their slave pens.

That will be revealed to you in due time.

Do not forget your place, journeyfriend.

With the chrome key card I gave you, you now have access to our power grid. There are chain laser emplacements and force projectors across the enclave. Use Ereshkigal's reconnaissance to decide which defenses to enable. You can also broadcast an overclock command or activate Rodanis Y by interfacing with Ereshkigal.

Be mindful of the amperage draw, though. If you overdraw the grid, you could cause brownouts.

Act quickly, =name=! The Templar near us even as we speak.

Grave thoughts, =name=. Listen to me now. Take this key card, go to Ereshkigal's room, and-- oh, that's the mainframe. It's what she prefers to be called.

Go to her room, access Ereshkigal, and scan the shale surrounding the enclave for anomalies. I've asked her to ready her sensors.

Update me with what you learn. You may use the intercom in the northeast corner of Ereshkigal's room to deliver your update.

Go, quickly! I'd soon be disabused of my fears.

That is sterling news, journeyfriend. I'll go inform Barathrum straightaway.

Furthermore, I spoke with Barathrum. He praised your handling of the Earl of Omonporch, and he thanks you for the bravery you exhibited in defending Grit Gate.

The attack today reminds us: for too long have we put our faith in the isolation of our guild and the preoccupations of the Putus Templar. The looming threat of another attack impels Barathrum to accelerate his plans, and with them, your position in our guild.

You are raised to Disciple, =player.formalAddressTerm=. Barathrum wishes to speak with you immediately.

Yes, disciple. Take this key and follow the stairs down to his study. He awaits.

With the chrome key card I gave you, you now have access to our power grid. There are chain laser emplacements and force projectors across the enclave. Use Ereshkigal's reconnaissance to decide which defenses to enable. You can also broadcast an overclock command or activate Rodanis Y by interfacing with Ereshkigal.

Be mindful of the amperage draw, though. If you overdraw the grid, you could cause brownouts.

Act quickly, =name=! The Templar near us even as we speak.

Yikes! Yes! The intensity was too great to be the result of one of my experiments. What was it, I wonder?

It's a word I say out of excitement. Sort of a semantic extension of the feeling I get when I see a quetzal. Oh, a quetzal is a pretty bird in the trogon family. I tend to incorporate things I like into my idiolect.

Quetzal! Thank you, thank you. What a poetic metaphor! You're a regular Shakesprig, aren't you?

Yes, yes, yes. They are so quetzal!

Oh, oh! Quetzal! A wave shortener for the short wave detector, a frustum pully for the ion lathe, a thrice-retrothreaded M-band, a...

*She continues.*

...and a dissertation on the illegitimacy of power. Quetzal!

I do, brave friend. I'll imprint them now.

Here there are, brave friend. Good luck!

What can I offer, nestling?

You look... refreshed. Thank you, =name=. Take this polygel we recently recovered from the Palladium Reef.

What welcome news, disciple! Please, take this as a token of my gratitude.

The flywheel of our scheme is spinning, but we must keep our paws on the treadle. Are you ready to learn what comes next?

The climber design relies on the use of electromagnets to interface with the planet's magnetic field and generate torque. Unfortunately, the Spindle generates its own interfering field, perhaps as a mechanism to prevent unwanted ascension.

Our aim is to access the Spindle's control unit and disable the field. How we accomplish this, however, is an enigma. From disparate bits across the archives of the digitum, Ereshkigal has stitched together a cryptic but instructional brocade. She's learned the field can be turned off from a place called Brightsheol, located in the Thin World and accessible only through Resheph's tomb inside the Tomb of the Eaters.

Strange, this, and imprecise, but as tinkers we know: a crude blueprint is better than no blueprint. You must return to Omonporch and enter the Tomb of the Eaters. Once inside, trace the errant paths cut into the mausoleum by robbers and vandals, and ascend to Resheph's burial chamber.

As for gaining entrance to the Tomb, Resheph sealed the gates a thousand years ago, but there's a flaw in the seal. The ancient Mark of Death has been lost to time, but if you were to recover it and incise the mark on your body, the Death Gate would open for you, as it did for countless Eater cadavers in the long-blurred past.

Recover the Mark of Death, =name=, enter the Tomb, and cross into Brightsheol. Place your paws once again on the dial and drum.

As I'd hoped you would, =name=. Take this disk with the signal encoded, just in case. And take this tattoo gun for when you recover the Mark of Death. You'll want to bring a pickaxe, too, or some other instrument for digging through stone. And beware: the Tomb is a vast and ancient space, and sacred to many. I cannot speak to what you will experience there.

The climber design relies on the use of electromagnets to interface with the planet's magnetic field and generate torque. Unfortunately, the Spindle generates its own interfering field, perhaps as a mechanism to prevent unwanted ascension.

Our aim is to access the Spindle's control unit and disable the field. How we accomplish this, however, is an enigma. From disparate bits across the archives of the digitum, Ereshkigal has stitched together a cryptic but instructional brocade. She's learned the field can be turn off from a place called Brightsheol, located in the Thin World and accessible only through Resheph's tomb inside the Tomb of the Eaters.

Strange, this, and imprecise, but as tinkers we know: a crude blueprint is better than no blueprint. You must return to Omonporch and enter the Tomb of the Eaters. Once inside, trace the errant paths cut into the mausoleum by robbers and vandals, and ascend to Resheph's burial chamber.

As for gaining entrance to the Tomb, Resheph sealed the gates a thousand years ago, but there's a flaw in the seal. The ancient Mark of Death has been lost to time, but if you were to recover it and incise the mark on your body, the Death Gate would open for you, as it did for countless Eater cadavers in the long-blurred past.

You're to recover the Mark of Death, =name=, enter the Tomb, and cross into Brightsheol.

Use the tattoo gun I've given you when you recover the Mark of Death. You'll want to bring a pickaxe, too, or some other instrument for digging through stone. And beware: the Tomb is a vast and ancient space, and sacred to many. I cannot speak to what you will experience there.

So I am, nestling. For a millennium now I've watched the river of Time turn the gears of Qud. I even played my part in diverting the river where I could. Oh, but there have been so many players through the years! So many players.

Little do I remember now, for I was but a cub, a nestling, when my kin and I crossed the Homs Delta into Qud. We were urged on by the flooding of a glacial river that flowed through our hearth-cave. The world was just unthawing then, and I recall the roar of the freezing water as it rushed through the grotto, and the frigid spray on my face as I watched in awe.

That's my dear friend, Euclid. It's a prattleplant. It stores every phrase it hears in its neuroot network, and it mimics speech by flicking its leaves against one another. What comes out is gibberish as often as not, but even so, it's agreeable company for my nights spent tinkering. It is old, perhaps older than I am, and it hasn't yet run out of things to say.

I do. Your service to the guild has been laudable, disciple. You braved the vaporous depths of Bethesda Susa and decoded the signal, you secured the Spindlegrounds and handled the self-appointed Earl, and perhaps most materially, you defended our enclave from the Putus Templar.

Since you returned from Bethesda, you've no doubt wondered at the signal's contents. Verily, I hid them to shield you from the weight of the truth. Only Otho, Q Girl, and I bear that burden, but circumstances have changed. The river of Time powers the gear train of our schemes and devices, and it rushes forth. From here, I must share the burden. You must know.

The signal is a beacon of welcoming, and it originates from the top of the Spindle.

The beacon confirmed my hypothesis. The Spindle is an elevator, engineered by the Eaters to convey freight to and from the vault of heaven. You see, nestling, in the earliest aurora of our past, the Eaters of Earth were joined by a great coven of beings that spanned the firmament. But the Eaters succumbed to some terrible temptation, and an injunction was placed on our world.

Since then, the stars were silent to us, and our world was left to molder and decay. But something changed. The signal affirms that an entity roosts atop the Spindle, and invites us to join it.

Dare I say, is the injunction at an end? It's too early to tell, but alas, there could be hope for our world.

I intend to ascend the Spindle and answer the call, disciple.

My protege Q Girl has designed a climber for the ascent. We intended to construct it piecewise at the enclave and the site itself, but the engineering feat exceeds even our capacity. With time, I am confident we could accomplish it, but the Putus Templar rob us of our patience. We need to act now, and so as loath as I am to admit it, we need Pax Klanq.

Pax Klanq is an eccentric mushroom prodigy. All its faults aside, it's a brilliant scientist and engineer, and I have little doubt that it could build the climber faster than we could. Several years have passed since we were last in contact, but it owes us a debt, and we must now collect.

Unfortunately, no one knows Pax Klanq's whereabouts. Through contacts I made over the years, I inquired as to its location. The most I was able to garner were these enigmatic instructions:

"Seek the heart of the rainbow, eat the god's flesh, and follow the Coral Path."

I must ask you to decipher this enigma, find Pax Klanq, and convince it to construct the climber. Remind Pax of the debt it owes us.

It strikes me as likely for this 'rainbow' to refer to the Rainbow Wood, where Klanq's kin consort, so I suggest you start there.

As I had hoped, disciple. First, speak with Q Girl. She'll hand over her design.

I await your return.

*Sparafucile raises one long-fingered hand in greeting.*

*Sparafucile instructs you to wait, and spends a minute or so rifling through the papers and scraps scattered across =pronouns.possessive= workbench. At last =pronouns.subjective= produces a graphite sketch of a cylinder, an expertly-rendered specular revealing its surface to be shiny like glass. The detail of the cylinder's contents are indistinct and dark, but somehow menacing.*

*Sparafucile points to the glass and makes a breaking motion, then draws a thumb across =pronouns.possessive= throat.*

*Sparafucile gives you a warm smile and a firm nod. Pressing both pointers to their respective thumbs, =pronouns.subjective= taps these finger-circles together before =pronouns.possessive= chest and rotates both hands in place until the smallest of =pronouns.possessive= long fingers touch. Finally, =pronouns.subjective= gestures toward the other Barathrumites working at their stations.*

*Sparafucile smiles. =pronouns.Subjective= raises a flat hand to =pronouns.possessive= chin and lowers it in your direction.*

*With a nod, Sparafucile waits for you to continue, keeping =pronouns.possessive= eyes focused on your lips.*

*Sparafucile places a closed fist over =pronouns.possessive= mouth, then taps =pronouns.possessive= ear, then muzzle with one long finger.*

*Smiling a bit, Sparafucile nods.*

*Sparafucile shakes =pronouns.possessive= head.*

*Sparafucile nods.*

*Sparafucile nods grimly.*

*Smiling, Sparafucile holds one hand out, palm up, and draws it back against =pronouns.possessive= chest.*

*Sparafucile averts =pronouns.possessive= gaze and heaves a tired sigh.*

*Sparafucile gives you a wan smile and a thumbs-up.*

*=pronouns.Subjective= nods slowly, smirking.*

*Sparafucile shrugs, still smirking.*

*Sparafucile stares at you as if you have grown an additional, substantially uglier head, which you have not.*

*Sparafucile makes an 'L' shape with both hands, thumbs facing down and fingers pointed toward one another, before flipping both hands so =pronouns.possessive= thumbs face up. =pronouns.Subjective= then raises a closed fist to =pronouns.possessive= mouth, thumb out, and mimes drinking from it.*

*This done, =pronouns.subjective= nods once more and turns back to =pronouns.possessive= work.*

Thank you, =name=. I like you too.

Bethesda Susa is an antipodal place, a gallery of life and death and the stages between. Its depths prolong life and end it early, remove life from the flow of days or return it.

It will seek to make you late. Take care you come back on time.

Though I adore the sights and smells of Omonporch, its bug problem becomes distracting.

If I'm to travel there, I always bring something they cannot zip away from.

Yes. That was not the voice of the caverns.

It feels like one of my nightmares come to life at last.

I have not.

I would, however, love to meet him. He seems a fun fungus.

But I daren't go. I fear the sludges.

I fear sludges, the kind you may no longer describe with 'some'. Born of the ancient stuff of existence, possessed of malice and wanting nothing more than to eat whatever they can, and they can eat whatever. It is even worse when they drink.

Take care with them.

I am always tired, =player.formalAddressTerm=.

My sleep comes in fits and starts, and always with ghastly visions. Sometimes my rest must be coaxed along with medicine.

No. My nightmares are a concoction of my disordered mind, nothing more. The fumes from this cauldron have nothing to do with the future, save how they affect it.

*Iseppa sighs.*

I'd rather speak of something else, =player.formalAddressTerm=.

Mm-hmm.

*Iseppa yawns.*

I would never think to steal from you the delight of forming opinions of my enclave on your own.

*Iseppa yawns.*

Besides, that sounds like rather a lot of talking.

I am Iseppa, and she is me.

I've given thought to being someone else, but never enough to try.

I am contemplating the distinction between animal and rock. Why are they different? How much like a rock must an animal be when it ceases to be an animal?~
I am considering the window of consciousness through which each of us views the universe. What happens to it when we die?~
I am taking inventory of my faculties, and looking for any that I might not previously have considered.~
I am considering the thought as a discrete object. I wish to determine whether I am able to think a single thought only, and to determine how to distinguish it from another thought in the same vein.~
I am considering the determination of goodness and badness in a thing, and how it is determined. The interaction between data and subjective evaluation, and the values that guide us that we cannot put to words.~
I am contemplating the Spindle's place in Qud, its position as a conceptual focal point. How much of what we know of the Spindle is the craft of those before us, carried forward?~
I am considering narrative inheritances. The stories we were told when our minds were more putty-like, the follies that shaped who we are, that shape the whole of Qud.

Yes.

Not yet, but that's not the point.

Yes! I have braved its wharf in the past, to gather precious convalessence for my experiments.

Are you going? Dress warmly and mind the trolls.

Omonporch is a fine source of bananas, but I have little to say about self-appointed nobility.

Claimed authority has a heady aroma, but no broth beneath it. Let us simply appease Asphodel and leave xem to xyr fantasies.

My air-puffed pastry experiment collapsed thanks to that disturbance.

Whoever is responsible will pay dearly.

I have visited the rainbow wood but once, and there I sampled an array of strange foods, one of which allowed me an unusual lens through which to view the world. It was nothing like I had ever experienced, and I imagined such wondrous recipes. I wrote them all down as best I could, of course.

Sadly, once I returned to my ordinary frame of reference, my scribblings proved impossible to read. So it goes.

What you smell is Grit Gate's signature dish. The Porridge is a recipe passed down through generations of Barathrumites, and it is the food that inspired me to pursue my craft. Yes, outsiders quail at the intensity of the scent, for its flavor is as bold as its effects!

We use cuisine to channel lightning from our bodies! Other recipes may let us breathe fire, or learn the secrets of the Eaters. The Porridge is as precious a part of our legacy as the Barathrum Clock or the foaminator.

Oh, it changes by the hour, sometimes the minute. Preserve this, observe that, add anything, taste everything.

But the starapple of my eye, the Spindle up which I cast my ambitious gaze... is edible vapor. Food that you eat, food that you breathe. Sadly, to date the most I have managed is an herbed saline suspension. Salty air, if you will.

Yes. The flavor, the breathability, all successful, but the barrier between flavor and food is in the calories, and they have yet eluded me. But it is only a matter of time. I am patient, and I am relentless.

I have no need for luck, but I appreciate your well-wishes nonetheless.

May your own endeavors drive you as mine drive me. Did you wish to speak of anything else?

Kitchen? You think this a mere kitchen?

And I suppose the Stilt is a modest church, its great bazaar a junk sale?

Look about you. Every instrument you see is precision-calibrated, every tool handcrafted and built to last. In this room, sustenance and ingenuity come together to evolve cuisine itself, to shape not this culture alone but, over time, every culture. Is that kind of influence the product of a kitchen? Can a simple clay oven in the flower fields do what we do here? Has every kitchen an indelible influence over Qud?

*He frowns.*

Should they? Should we not all?

But perhaps you are right, =player.formalAddressTerm=. Think for a moment.

Every ingredient in the soup of collective knowledge is a valuable one, and who am I to elevate myself over more humble pioneers? But! All the more reason for us to regard cuisine (and by extension, culture itself) to be a scientific endeavor, an ongoing trial-and-error, a blending of what we know and what we don't know, calling upon reality itself to be our guide.

You are more insightful than I realized, =name=. Thank you for this discussion. Did you need aught else?

Bethesda Susa is a vibrant and thriving ecosystem in which we have no place. That said, I certainly would not complain if someone were to clear out its Mechanimist infestation.

Should you travel there, watch your step. The fronds of a lurking beth can rapidly exsanguinate fleshy creatures such as we.

I know that Omonporch is a miserable, hot place and Asphodel is a self-important churl.

I don't even like bananas.

Yes, and I fear the worst. Hie to Ereshkigal. She will know what to do.

I have met Pax Klanq. I was puffed on.

Candidly, I prefer fungi edible and inert.

My chromelings, my machines, my crops. I tend to them and they tend to me.

Speaking to other organics is as strenuous to me as any physical exercise.

My reclusiveness is not born of antipathy; I simply cannot converse as easily as you do and don't wish to learn how.

Ereshkigal is the mainframe computer of Grit Gate. She keeps watch through the thin world, as she would put it, while we maintain her presence in the thick world.

I feel as though she and I understand one another.

There are pools of convalessence there. You see, when cryogenic mist condenses, it forms a cool, luminous liquid that's restorative if you're able to bath in it.

Oh! And in one of the ruined wards, the Alchemist keeps their shop. Who's the Alchemist, you ask? A sort of enigmatic figure -- amateur liquid-tinker, poet, merchant. Their methods aren't scientific, but they are useful if you're seeking a specific kind of liquid. Just be careful around them, =name=.

Nothing other than a pet theory of mine that the Spindle is a liquid in laminar flow.

Yes! I was even provided with a brief premonition of it, as my workbench liquids are sensitive to small vibrations around the enclave.

Oh, yes. You see, years and years ago, we were studying optics in the course of our research into laser technology. Barathrum was giving a lecture to some guest attendees, and...

Oh, I'd rather not talk about it.

*Hortensa chuckles.*

Years. Decades on decades. Centuries, perhaps. Most of these wet-earred cubs were merely sketches in their mothers' dreambooks when I arrived to study under Barathrum. We knew so little then, know so little now.

*Hortensa chuckles.*

You are sharp, =name=. In a way that's what I am. But liquids are more willful than scrap. I can't solder them together; they would run away, hide in the shale cracks, slowly come apart and disappear. I moreso think of myself as a wisewoman in dialog with them -- I manage their moods and phases. My notebooks are full of their quirks and caprices. It's a wonder, isn't it, how at just the right temperature and pressure the continuity of matter is smashed apart? How the gaseous butterfly flits out of the dense worm?

I won't denigrate them, =name=, or presume to speak for what's in their hearts. But I can direct you around the contours of the impressions they've left on me.

Who would you like to hear about, =player.offspringTerm=?

Larger than life. Paternal. Concerned. The lenses of his eyes are focused on the far points of the world.

Brassy. If you bent him he might snap. The way I treat liquids on my burner, Otho treats the units of the enclave.

Sharp as a tack, and living a life of deep meaning. Inventive and orderly. I can't say I understand his music, but I do love how expressive he is with it.

Oh, I have such a precious vantage point on my sweet neighbor! When he achieves a moment of perfection in his craft -- a flawlessly spiraled barrel, a mound of powder measured to the grain -- he beams like the high salt sun. What a lovely smile.

She explodes like gas and dust in a quiet corner of the galaxy. Radiant. Revolutionary. She's a good listener and companion for supper, which you mightn't expect.

After supper I like to retreat to the library, take a storybook off the shelves, flop down on the chairbear, and lose myself in another world. Many of these worlds feature palaces, markets, gardens, ships. Many of those places have bells. When they do, I always think of Mafeo. More than anyone else, Mafeo could be a character in the bright world of a story, where this dusty place is itself confined to a mere storybook.

Our sleepy sage. So sweet. She calms me. I sit in her room and we muse on the nature of things.

I've instructed Neek since they were a lil' cub. What a strange one! Bouncey. Full of smiles. But brilliant in their own way. My favorite book in all the world is Neek's "Spiderwebs on Hoversleds". Who would have ever thought?

Fiery. Blustery. Like the stews he cooks. If you're going to chat with him, make sure you have your schedule cleared and a ewer of honeyed wine.

Precious Shem. They've such a wider view of the world than we do. What a momentous obligation we've created for ourselves, and how I wouldn't undo it!

I've shared my honey with that prickly troglodyte for more years than I can count. I can't help but like him, and while he won't admit it, he feels the same about me.

She's a sphinx! So enigmatic that one. It's not entirely clear if she was there, waiting, when Q Girl succeeded at retreading the mainframe's guts, or if she sparked into being that very moment. Or was it some synthesis of the two?

Is... is this a question trick? I suppose I cannot know what you intend. Can I understand you?

What kind words. It seems so with you, too.

Would you like to hear? When I was first put together by Father and friends, I was Shem 2, the second iteration of the make-me project.

As I came along, scampered through the halls, listened to the stories Neek read me, climbed onto Sparafucile's workbench to have my screws replaced, I realized I was not what I could be. And so I downgraded myself to Shem 1.

That has happened three times.

It's unclear to me that I should be.

I am your friend, =name=.

The Temple of the Rock is cut off from the wider world, and I hear the Mechanimist colonists no longer recognize High Priest Eschelstadt. That said, if you are favored by the Mechanimists, if you are welcome in their holy places, then I've no doubt that Phinae Hoshaiah will grant you peaceful entry.

Yea! So you like it? Sheba Hag and I composed it on a wavelathe. We made a series of songs about the birth and life of the Kasaphescence. Together we call them "Spun on the Cosmic Loom".

Oh, Sheba Hagadias. She's the librarian at the cathedral of the Six Day Stilt. My water-sister and cohort in chrome.

Beauty manifest, whose chromium shoals are Awe itself. In my belief system, She's the being from whom all metal was birthed, out in the ever-void. There are pieces of Her in every chrome belfry and every machine. Even bits of Her in our own blood.

For me, Her essence extends beyond mere metal. Anything that's ordered, She infuses: a poem, a mathematical proof, a clean workspace... so definitely not Q Girl's.

Of a sort, yes. I'm part of a branch who deify the Kasaphescence only. We believe the argent fathers to be earthly beings: important to the faith's early history but not divine.

Many. Many. This is my third collaboration with Sheba. Our first two collections were called "Immaculate Chrome" and "Outside In".

Oh, it's the silver rondure. It's a mark of devotion to the Kasaphescence.

Don't I know it. I've had to invent eight separate systems of organization to manage them all. At the moment I'm trying out a new one, Harmonices Spiralis. Spiral towers with heights increasing according to the harmonic series of numbers. It's... fine.

The problem is I'm always inscribing more disks. New contraptions. Reverse-engineered artifacts. It's a good problem to have, I suppose.

Take a look. See if any interest you.

We're a vibrant community here. A circle of monks mapping the outer lattices and raising viaducts where we need to.

We remain secluded to protect ourselves. Otho and Barathrum insist on it. They are wise, and I defer to them. My collaboration with Sheba Hag does cause them worry, but they tolerate it, bless their hearts.

Oh, Sheba Hagadias. She's the librarian at the cathedral of the Six Day Stilt. My water-sister and cohort in chrome.

Argggggggh! Yes! Three towers of disks came crashing down!

It's sort of like "Neek stares at you awkwardly" no but I'm just kidding, heh. I'm just 'jidding'.

It's sort of like this. You go to the baetyl. You talk to it and you say, "Look, where is every beaded bracelet in the jungle? Where is every beaded bracelet in the watervine marsh? Where is every beaded bracelet in the River Svy?"

Then it tells you and you go get the bracelets.

Asphodel!! I like xem. I get it. It's sort of like you don't want to be here, you don't want to there, you want to be somewhere else. Your own earldom, maybe.

You felt it too! Every. rock. moved. Wooooooow! It's sort of like a community dance we all performed together. Mafeo. Sparafucile. The chromelings. The rocks. Everyone else.

What's Pax Klanq?

*Neek stares at you awkwardly.*

It's like what I *don't* do is drink Hortensa's sludge soup samples. I drank them once and she saw me and just sort of smiled tactfully but I could tell on the inside she was like "WOOOOOOOOW" so I don't do it.

Neek winks at you! Ha ha ha. She knows I still do it.

Neek, chanting: "RECTANGLE HAIR! RECTANGLE HAIR! RECTANGLE HAIR!"

It's sort of like when prehistoric lizards would grow big sails to regulate their body temperatures and you'd say, "I like it, but it looks so organically generated. What if you filed it into a sharp rectangle?"

It's a big bear city with a lot of books and scratched brass and strange noises. But if you start chanting in sync with the noises Otho will hush you. It's sort of like this, let me explain.

Iseppa is napping so you peek into her room and rearrange her papers.
Then you walk down the hall and say "ding ding" so Mafeo shakes his head and dings back.
Then you foaminate by Hortensa. You foaminate right on by. You hug her too.
Then you scoot over and hug Spara.
Then you scoot over to Jacobo and look over his shoulder and nod like this.

*Neek nods thoughtfully.*

You go and run at Q Girl and tap all the gadgets and tap her on the head.
Then you sneak by Otho's office.
Then you hug Shem -1 and you drag them to the library and read to them. Sometimes Barathrum and Hortensa are in there, and they smile at you.
Then you get hungry and you roll toward the kitchen. You slurp honey from the vase and Dardi glares at you. You say, "I'm just 'jidding'."
Then you climb the pipes and whisper to Aloysius, "Live and drink, live and drink, live and drink."
Then you pat the chromelings on their heads. You say to Ereshkigal, "boom boom boom boom boom I love you."
Then you sneak into storage and pat all the chromelings on their heads.
You take a nap in the peptic chair.
Then you get a bright idea and go back to your room to write it in your notebook.

[A slot opens from the center of the door and a metal tray slides out]

[several minutes pass]

So you wish to study with us. Unfortunately, we require more than a willing spirit.

Qud is not =villageZeroName=. You will need to prove your worth, that you might not waste our time and efforts. Travel to the great cavern Golgotha to the north. Within its halls you will find a cache of dysfunctional waydroids.

Recover one, repair it, and return here. If we are satisfied with your work, you will be admitted to our order. Otherwise, you will not be.

Do you accept this arrangement?

[several minutes pass]

The disk you bring is encoded with an important signal. To discuss it further, we must admit you to our order. Unfortunately, we require more than a willing spirit.

You will need to prove your worth, that you might not waste our time and efforts. Travel to the great cavern Golgotha to the north. Within its halls you will find a cache of dysfunctional waydroids.

Recover one, repair it, and return here. If we are satisfied with your work, you will be admitted as an apprentice. Otherwise, you will be turned away.

Do you accept this arrangement?

[several minutes pass]

So it seems that you are indeed Argyve's apprentice. He wishes you to study with us. Unfortunately, we require more than a willing spirit.

Qud is not Joppa. You will need to prove your worth, that you might not waste our time and efforts. Travel to the great cavern Golgotha to the north. Within its halls you will find a cache of dysfunctional waydroids.

Recover one, repair it, and return here. If we are satisfied with your work, you will be admitted to our order. Otherwise, you will not be.

Do you accept this arrangement?

Enter then, traveler.

[The slot opens from the center of the door.
A bright red light shines through.]

[Several minutes pass.]

You may enter. Simply walk through the force barrier. Make your first two lefts and speak to Steward Otho in his office.

My condolences to your sense of smell, =player.formalAddressTerm=.

Golgotha is an execrable place in more ways than one, and I would advise you not to visit without a healthy stock of yuckwheat and honey. If you can cook, a meal with yuckwheat may banish a disease before it comes into its own. Bring salves or urberries, too, and mind your feet in the Cloaca.

Bethesda Susa? Lovely, but a bit dangerous for a holiday destination. You'll want to bring bandages and warm clothing. Why not take a look at my stock in case something suits you?

It's a lovely place, and the bananas are delicious.

As for the so-called Earl, well. I'm loath to recognize nobility to begin with, and I cannot decide whether Asphodel claiming xyr own title is better or worse than if xe inherited it.

Nothing short of explosives or heavy equipment could have made such a sound.

Be ready for the worst, =player.formalAddressTerm=.

The Rainbow Wood is a fair bit too dangerous for a casual promenade, but nothing compares to its beauty. Once, I viewed it from above by means of a gyrocopter, and I will never forget the sights that I saw.

Nor will I forget crashing to the ground because the gyrocopter broke, but every adventure has its complications, wouldn't you say?

Oh, I sell whatever sundries that meet my standards of quality, with some measure of curation. I try to ensure that my shelves carry a bit of many things, but you can count on finding more than enough ammunition and a few recoilers that can lead you back here in difficult times.

If you have anything in need of identification or repair, I can take care of that for you for a few drams as well.

Why, this place is Grit Gate! O the vaulted halls, the glint of chrome, the gentle hum of chain turret emplacements!

There's nowhere like Grit Gate in the whole of Qud, =player.formalAddressTerm=. I've journeyed in my comparatively short time, but I always return here. The very air buzzes with knowledge, as well as quite a few other things.

We are called the Urshiib, =player.formalAddressTerm=.

Our kind are smarter than the average bear. Sharper, too, and a bit more handy.

To make preparations, =player.formalAddressTerm=. Barathrum instructed us here after you secured the grounds.

Who am I? Svenlainard, Eater of Game, First Huntsman of Qud.

Asphodel the socialite? Asphodel the scoundrel? You can hate xym -- and I do -- but you have to admire xym (I don't).

The truth of it is that Plysago had the idea first, to lay claim to the Spindle per some precedent of law established in Abram's time. Of course, Plysago isn't around to make their case, are they?

Asphodel trades on reputation and favors. Xe is likely to want to leverage your connections, so be in good social standing with a few factions for xem to even consider it.

Now, alternatively, if you're loved by the Consortium, xe will feel the pressure to acquiesce. Xe has enough enemies among phyta.

Of course, where all else fails, you can always sharpen your shears, if you get my meaning.

*Yurl winks with one of their leaves.*

I'm Yurl, chandler and Consortium notary. As for my story, I've been growing out of this pot for a while now. Before that, I was in another pot.

Yes, the Consortium of Phyta. We are a fellowship of trees, vines, shrubs, weeds, flowers, herbs, cacti, algae -- most sorts of plants, really. A dastardly crowd, unquestionably, but how else am I to restock my shelves or ascertain news from across Qud?

Fungi? I am a chandler and a gentleplant. I cook fungi. I shelter myself under the caps of fungi. But consort with fungi? You do me harm, =player.formalAddressTerm=.

I believe I have a caller, presently. Perhaps you should retire from here.

I said, "Good day," =player.formalAddressTerm=!

I am at your service.

Indeed I am.

I am its mayor, and I have been for some time. You see, years ago I deserted my tribe. We were of two different minds -- they desired nothing but to bludgeon everything to death, while I asked, "What is the nature of this thing we bludgeon? Or of the act itself?" Recognizing that my answers lay elsewhere, I cast myself upon the byroads of Qud, as a lovesick sailor casts the bottle that bears his sonnets upon the surf, hoping I'd be guided toward the wisdom I sought by my desire to seek it.

Some years later and twenty ago, I came upon these mushroom huts and their provincial inhabitants. These are a goodly, simple people, and I was charmed by the warmth with which they welcomed me. Surely, I owed my acceptance at first to the countenance I share with their mighty god, but they soon grew to love me, and I them. I've remained here ever since in contemplation of those questions that first stirred in me all those years ago.

Kyakukya is a village of hunters and gatherers. The natives are not likely to pay you much mind so long as you leave them alone. If it's commerce that interests you, take a gander at Yurl's wares in the northwest corner. Svenlainard's, too, if he's graced us with his presence. I must warn you, however. If you harbor any villainous intentions, you would do well to abandon them. Warden Indrix will be keeping his eye on you.

Yurl is a harmless cucumber vine. It came to Kyakukya a few years ago after the last Consortium chandler, a wicked little hyacinth named Plysago, suffered something of an... accident. In Axelcatl's defense, Plysago probably should have stowed its shears before it chose to berate the poor hunter. Anyway, Yurl stocks a plethora of goods; you will be satisfied with your visit.

Svenlainard is a huntsman from around these parts. Usually he is out in the jungle stalking his quarries, but every so often he sets up shop in the copse of trees at the village's center. If it's rare biological specimens that interest you, such as mail crafted from the husks of hideous beasts, Svenlainard is the man to meet.

Warden Indrix is one of the most ferocious warriors I've ever met. Once upon a time, he and his brothers gorged themselves on the flesh of beasts by starlight, but now I count myself lucky to call him my warden. Some believe he is possessed of a sour disposition, though I assure you he is but a victim of his goatish nature.

A soldier of fortune, I see. Speak to my friend and warden Indrix. You will find him patrolling the village.

As far south as Joppa, you say? Yes, unfortunately we have found the remains of girshlings down river from the northern jungles. It would seem that the Pale Death, as my erstwhile tribal ancestors named it, awakens. However, there is little a philosopher such as myself can do about it.

Klanq puff at you.

Klanq want no visitors, so Klanq relocate workshop. Half dimension away. Tasties alter viewing plane.

Prickles? Klanq miss prickles.

Klanq puff on prickles during lecture on light refraction. Prickles angry.

Klanq care little for debt.

Klanq puff on debt.

Klanq think...

Klanq got it! Klanq puff on you.

Klanq puff on you. You host Klanq. You spread Klanq for Klanq. Then your Klanq shrivels away.

Klanq puff on you, then Klanq build jalopy.

Klanq puff on you! Klanq build jalopy.

Speak nothing of that name to me. You are warned.

Speak nothing of that name to me. You are warned.

I will ravage your nubile heart!

Grrrraaaah! There is but one task I know to offer. It is most treacherous, and in all likelihood you will perish. Is your interest waned?

There is a river just north of the village that runs an eastwardly course into the jungle. Along its bank lies a goatfolk village. There resides a mighty shaman, Mamon Souldrinker. He is in possession of a talisman of great power, an amaranthine prism that refracts the psyche of its handler in much the same way, as Mayor Nuntu has explained to me, a common prism refracts light. The thing is cursed, traveler. No man or goat may safely wield it for long. You must travel to the village and retrieve the prism from Mamon by any means necessary. Do you understand?

Because, traveler, Mamon is my elder brother. He would discern my presence before I could strike.

There is. Firstly, Mamon will likely have several goatfolk under his enthrallment, and they will protect him at all costs.

Secondly, take care to stay out of Mamon's reach, for his power is most potent when he may lay hands on you.

Finally, once you recover the prism, do not under any circumstances wield it. I needn't warn you of the consequences should you return to me bearing that charm.

That is all. Are you willing?

Just north of the village, there's a river that runs an eastwardly course into the jungle. Follow it to the goatfolk village. There you will find Mamon.

Is it so? Only a ferocious warrior could have slain Mamon. You must be such a warrior. Now hand over the prism and choose your reward.

Who am I? Who are you? What does it matter? You and I are nothing, the most insignificant afterthoughts of an amaranthine shade.

The amaranthine dream! The heights within ourselves we might yet reach with his guidance. There it is in all of us -- shades of our elder selves. Within each man, a goat. Within each goat, a man!

You don't talk with that mangoat -- you listen to him.

A connoisseur of liquids. Sure, I dabble in other states of matter.

But I prefer the shifting and tumbling of angleless motion.

Not too hot, not too cold, not too indeterminate.

Indubitably, for I've proclaimed it so! There was no Earl to tell me otherwise.

Lease control of my Spindle, you say? Well, well... That's a colossal request. There's no simple price I can assign to such a thing. Were I to grant such a request, you would owe me a great debt. You and several of your allies.

I will convene a council. The First Council of Omonporch. Send word to four of your allied factions. Have them send delegates. Together, perhaps, you can appease me.

Oh... oh! It's you! You are a dear friend, indeed. Of course, of course! You and your bear friends are most welcome to my Spindle.

That's right. I've leased your friends the Spindlegrounds and appointed you viceroy to oversee their operation.

Welcome to court, asphodelyte. You serve at my pleasure.

Good.

We hindren are a close-knit and staid people, and our safety depends on our solidarity. In order to preserve our safety and culture, we ask that any of our number who leave us never come back. Recently, one such exile took the treasure of our village, a bracelet named Kindrish, with her when she left. None of our number can leave to get it back, or it will be a violation of the values that I have guarded, and the Hindriarchs before me, for countless generations.

Will you help us recover our treasure? We have a small cache of valuables we can offer as a reward.

Excellent. I will do my best to reward you to your satisfaction.

Though her name is sand in my mouth now, the exile who stole Kindrish is called Eskhind. She left a few weeks ago, and took her sister and brother with her. I don't know where she's gone, but Warden Neelahind might, as they were close friends as children.

Find the exile called Eskhind and retrieve Kindrish from her, even... even if the cost is the life of her and her siblings. Kindrish has been handed down over countless generations, and it belongs to my people, not any individual. Go, kendren. Speak to Warden Neelahind, and find out where Eskhind is hidden.

Then I will thank you to leave as quickly as possible. I don't want the faundren to become used to our borders being permeable.

You've found our treasure? I'll admit, kendren, I'm very impressed. Take this as thanks.

That said, the exile must answer for her crimes. There is further reward for you if you see this case through to the end.

You've found our treasure? I'll admit, kendren, I'm very impressed.

Take this as thanks, and... well. I suppose you've earned your stay for a while. Just try not to give the faundren any ideas.

Perhaps you should get back to it rather than hanging around my village. Warden Neelahind may be able to help you.

Ayvah. She must have sold it. Tell no one about this. Please understand that I cannot reward you, as you did not complete the task I asked of you.

The pariah claims to be wrongfully accused, and you believe her?

She is obviously lying. Are all kendren so gullible?

Fine! Go to the Warden, then, and have her solve this mystery.

But know this: until a thief is found and Kindrish is recovered, I cannot reward you. You get nothing. Live and drink, =player.formalAddressTerm=.

Fine. What are they?

She exiled herself by leaving Bey Lah. Our codes demand that no hindren who leaves us ever return.

She knew this, and still she chose to leave.

Kesehind is a good boy. He lost his parents long ago, but has been like a son to me.

Now his axe-arm is strong where mine is not, and so he lends it.

Warden Neelahind attends to her duties admirably. She is not terribly assertive, but she need not be.

I'm surprised she's going along with this outsider-led investigation, but she always had a soft spot for the exile.

If you ask the exile, I'm sure she'll spin some kind of accusation that I believe gender to be an immutable prison, that I impose it on others.

She's lying. Our people have a long history of two-gender hindren called hartind, respected and consecrated. There is a proper path to gender variance in our society, of which the male exile could have availed himself years ago.

He never did, so I do not recognize him.

Poem? I detest poetry. Why would one go about learning to write only to use purposefully unclear language, choosing rhyme scheme over clarity?

Of course it's not mine. Take it back.

Ah! Yes. My apologies, kendren. Live and drink. I am Neelahind, Warden of Bey Lah. How... may I help you?

We were... yes. We were close.

I can scarcely believe that she would be capable of doing such a thing. Stealing our greatest treasure? Eskhind wouldn't possibly... but if Grand-Doe says it, it must be so.

Wh—no! No! What? No, that's not possible! Ayvah, what an absurd idea!

Grand-Doe speaks only truth! Grand-Doe only ever speaks truth!

It's not possible. She didn't lie.

No. It's not true, and I won't hear any more of your poisonous ideas, kendren. Consider the topic closed.

Do you actually have a question?

Oh. Esk and I, we had a place... there's a path to the =EskhindRoadDirection= that leads to the remains of a lightning-struck tree, made hollow by the fire from above. It was the furthest from the village either of us had ever been, until I attended my first warden's moot.

She and I would spend time there, back then. Perhaps she is there now, but I don't dare check.

No... no, I can't... and the artifact is lost?

It was all for nothing... for nothing...

No, it can't be... how. This place. This accursed village!

This whole village be damned!

You monster! You monster! How dare you!

Oh! Kendren, thank you, thank you! You've done so much for us. Here is a reward for your hard work.

Um, that said, there's still the matter of finding out who stole our treasure. It'd mean a great deal if you could still help with the resolution of the case.

Oh.

But... what now?

I... I don't know. Grand-doe usually resolves Bey Lah's disputes. I am present to defuse violence, or keep the peace through the threat of it.

What do you think?

Oh. Well, yes, that's... that's a good idea. You'll help, right? My axe-arm and conviction are strong, but deduction has never been my greatest strength.

I can answer questions about the people in town, if that would be helpful.

Oh, =name=! I'm so happy!

I can scarcely believe she loves me, much less that... that we could be together. But it's true. Wherever we go from now on, we go together.

For me? Are you sure?

But... this is a poem. In Esk's handwriting. Are you s-sure this is for me?

Oh.

Ayvah, she-- Eskhind wrote this about... me? How my head swims at these lavish words. If she wrote this and meant it for me, she must... love me.

But it can't be. Can it?

Kendren, you must understand. I spent so many years trying in vain to fall out of love with Eskhind. I thought it the only way to endure our adolescence, watching her poor attempts at courtship with other hindren.

I thought it the only way to endure her departure, as well. But she is returned, and she loves me. Ayvah. I am terrified to speak to her of this, but I must.

Thank you.

No. You are the one investigating, so my bias need not enter play. If you determine that Eskhind is guilty, I will heed your word and carry out a just sentence.

After that, I'm not sure.

Of course, kendren. Ask away.

Keh is very wise and very careful, which makes up for her lack of strength or... tact. She always knows what's right, and she runs a very tight shift.

She hates clutter from work like nothing else and cleans up any mess she makes--unless it's a spill, then she makes Kesehind do it. It's because Grand-Doe has a terrible fear of standing pools of water, refusing to touch them. Copper and bronze afflict her with allergy-sores and she can't touch them. She's too old to spar with me, but her bow-arm still aims true.

That's all I can think of.

Oh. She's, well, she's a good person with strong convictions, or has always seemed so. I suppose that isn't helpful.

Esk has a good eye for detail. She hates watervine so much that she avoids the paddies and won't eat matz without lah broth to make it taste better. Umm, she's afraid of saltbacks. She's good at foraging and terrible at crafting.

I've missed her so much.

Kesehind is completely loyal to Grand-Doe. We used to be friends, but his disposition has become so sour since he was appointed her protector, and he's quite cold to me now. He can't see well in darkness. He's the holder of Ari, an unbreakable heirloom fire axe, and he's very skilled with it.

He's terribly finicky about food. He'll only eat bland food and meat, and... oh! Once, when he had a bad cough as a faundren, a caretaker tried to feed him yuckwheat, and he kicked her so hard it dislocated her jaw. Poor Elder Eselhind.

Oh, not very much. The only kendren who were allowed in the village before you are traders, and it's always a very big fuss when one comes by. It's been a while since that happened, though, so any kendren who have visited must have come in secret.

The evidence is clear. In violation of sacred law and the will of her people, Eskhind stole the artifact called Kindrish from Bey Lah. She will be stripped of honor, stripped of water, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will her name be spoken here again, and she will never return... on pain of death.

And I... I will go with her. May my property be payment for the harm she has done to our people, and I will gladly pay it for the privilege of walking by her side.

I have no doubt that Bey Lah will thrive in my absence as it did before I became warden. Live and drink, my kin. Long may Hindriarch Keh lead you.

The evidence is clear. In violation of sacred law and the will of her people, Eskhind stole the artifact called Kindrish from Bey Lah. She will be stripped of honor, stripped of water, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will her name be spoken here again, and she will never return... on pain of death.

She could never hope to repay the harm caused by her actions, but we will grant her this last mercy: Bey Lah will forget her debt alongside her name.

Just is the leadership of Hindriarch Keh. Long may she live!

The evidence is clear. In violation of sacred law and the will of her people, Eskhind stole the artifact called Kindrish from Bey Lah. She will be stripped of honor, stripped of water, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will her name be spoken here again, and she will never return... on pain of death.

And I... I will go with her. May my property be payment for the harm she has done to our people, and I will gladly pay it for the privilege of walking by her side.

I have no doubt that Bey Lah will thrive in my absence as it did before I became warden. Live and drink, my kin. Long may Hindriarch Keh lead you.

The evidence is clear. In violation of sacred law and the will of her people, Eskhind stole the artifact called Kindrish from Bey Lah. She will be stripped of honor, stripped of water, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will her name be spoken here again, and she will never return... on pain of death.

She could never hope to repay the harm caused by her actions, but we will grant her this last mercy: Bey Lah will forget her debt alongside her name.

Just is the leadership of Hindriarch Keh. Long may she live!

The evidence is clear. In violation of sacred law and the will of her people, Eskhind stole the artifact called Kindrish from Bey Lah. She will be stripped of honor, stripped of water, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will her name be spoken here again, and she will never return... on pain of death.

And I... I will go with her. May my property be payment for the harm she has done to our people, and I will gladly pay it for the privilege of walking by her side.

May the fates have mercy upon us all.

The evidence is clear. In violation of sacred law and the will of her people, Eskhind stole the artifact called Kindrish from Bey Lah. She will be stripped of honor, stripped of water, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will her name be spoken here again, and she will never return... on pain of death.

She could never hope to repay the harm caused by her actions, but we will grant her this last mercy: Bey Lah will forget her debt alongside her name.

May the fates have mercy upon us all.

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. In fact, I believe that no hindren was responsible for its theft, but one of the kendren who permeated our borders well before our investigator arrived. Any of them could have committed the theft.

Eskhind is free to go, and I'm... I'm going with her. I cannot serve under Hindriarch Keh while my beloved returns to exile.

I have no doubt that Bey Lah will thrive in my absence as it did before I became warden. Live and drink, my kin. Long may Hindriarch Keh lead you.

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. In fact, I believe that no hindren was responsible for its theft, but rather one of the kendren who permeated our borders well before our investigator arrived. Any of them could have committed the theft.

Eskhind helped us cleave to the path of justice. She is free to go, and her name will not be forgotten, but she must remain in exile.

Just is the leadership of Hindriarch Keh. Long may she live!

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. In fact, I believe that no hindren was responsible for its theft, but one of the kendren who permeated our borders well before our investigator arrived. Any of them could have committed the theft.

Eskhind is free to go, and I'm... I'm going with her. I cannot serve under Hindriarch Keh while my beloved returns to exile.

I have no doubt that Bey Lah will thrive in my absence as it did before I became warden. Live and drink, my kin. Long may Hindriarch Keh lead you.

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. In fact, I believe that no hindren was responsible for its theft, but rather one of the kendren who permeated our borders well before our investigator arrived. Any of them could have committed the theft.

Eskhind helped us cleave to the path of justice. She is free to go, and her name will not be forgotten, but she must remain in exile.

Just is the leadership of Hindriarch Keh. Long may she live!

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. In fact, I believe that no hindren was responsible for its theft, but one of the kendren who permeated our borders well before our investigator arrived. Any of them could have committed the theft.

Eskhind is free to go, and I'm... I'm going with her. I cannot serve under Hindriarch Keh while my beloved returns to exile.

Goodbye. May the fates have mercy upon you.

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. In fact, I believe that no hindren was responsible for its theft, but rather one of the kendren who permeated our borders well before our investigator arrived. Any of them could have committed the theft.

Eskhind helped us cleave to the path of justice. She is free to go, and her name will not be forgotten, but she must remain in exile.

May the fates have mercy upon us all.

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. The crime was committed by none other than Grand-Doe's protector, Kesehind. He will be stripped of the ancestral axe he carries, stripped of his property, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will his name be spoken here again, and he will never return... on pain of death.

Moreover... Keh's attempt to pin blame on Eskhind without due process opened my eyes to her abuses of power. She need not leave Bey Lah, but she is Keh-hind once more-- stripped of her title and standing.

As for the hindriarchy, Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people. May Hindriarch Esk lead us to a brighter future!

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. The crime was committed by none other than Grand-Doe's protector, Kesehind. He will be stripped of the ancestral axe he carries, stripped of his property, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will his name be spoken here again, and he will never return... on pain of death.

Moreover... Keh's attempt to pin blame on Eskhind without due process opened my eyes to her abuses of power. She need not leave Bey Lah, but she is Keh-hind once more-- stripped of her title and standing.

As for the hindriarchy, Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people. May Hindriarch Esk lead us to a brighter future!

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. The crime was committed by none other than Grand-Doe's protector, Kesehind. He will be stripped of the ancestral axe he carries, stripped of his property, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will his name be spoken here again, and he will never return... on pain of death.

Moreover... Keh's attempt to pin blame on Eskhind without due process opened my eyes to her abuses of power. She need not leave Bey Lah, but she is Keh-hind once more-- stripped of her title and standing.

As for the hindriarchy, Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people. It will be a challenge to accept change, but we will be stronger for it.

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. The crime was committed by none other than Grand-Doe's protector, Kesehind. He will be stripped of the ancestral axe he carries, stripped of his property, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will his name be spoken here again, and he will never return... on pain of death.

Moreover... Keh's attempt to pin blame on Eskhind without due process opened my eyes to her abuses of power. She need not leave Bey Lah, but she is Keh-hind once more-- stripped of her title and standing.

As for the hindriarchy, Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people. It will be a challenge to accept change, but we will be stronger for it.

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. The crime was committed by none other than Grand-Doe's protector, Kesehind. He will be stripped of the ancestral axe he carries, stripped of property, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will his name be spoken here again, and he will never return... on pain of death.

Eskhind is free to go, and I'm... I'm going with her. This place is not safe.

May the fates have mercy on you.

The evidence is clear: Eskhind did not steal Kindrish. The crime was committed by none other than Grand-Doe's protector, Kesehind. He will be stripped of the ancestral axe he carries, stripped of his property, and stripped from our oral histories. Never will his name be spoken here again, and he will never return... on pain of death.

Moreover... Keh's attempt to pin blame on Eskhind without due process opened my eyes to her abuses of power. She need not leave Bey Lah, but she is Keh-hind once more-- stripped of her title and standing. As for the hindriarchy, Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people.

I fear dark times ahead. We must remain strong in the coming days.

The evidence is clear: Bey Lah's own Hindriarch has betrayed her people. She took our ancestral treasure as her own, pinning the crime on an exile she knew could not defend herself. For this treason, she is hereby stripped of title, stripped of property, stripped of home.

With the exile of Keh-Hind, the hindriarchy lies vacant, with no elders fit to take it. Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people. May Hindriarch Esk lead us to a brighter future!

The evidence is clear: Bey Lah's own Hindriarch has betrayed her people. She took our ancestral treasure as her own, pinning the crime on an exile she knew could not defend herself. For this treason, she is hereby stripped of title, stripped of property, stripped of home.

With the exile of Keh-Hind, the hindriarchy lies vacant, with no elders fit to take it. Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people. May Hindriarch Esk lead us to a brighter future!

The evidence is clear: Bey Lah's own Hindriarch has betrayed her people. She took our ancestral treasure as her own, pinning the crime on an exile she knew could not defend herself. For this treason, she is hereby stripped of title, stripped of property, stripped of home.

With the exile of Keh-Hind, the hindriarchy lies vacant, with no elders fit to take it. Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people. May Hindriarch Esk lead us to a brighter future!

The evidence is clear: Bey Lah's own Hindriarch has betrayed her people. She took our ancestral treasure as her own, pinning the crime on an exile she knew could not defend herself. For this treason, she is hereby stripped of title, stripped of property, stripped of home.

With the exile of Keh-Hind, the hindriarchy lies vacant, with no elders fit to take it. Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people. It will be a challenge to accept change, but we will be stronger for it.

The evidence is clear: Bey Lah's own Hindriarch has betrayed her people. She took our ancestral treasure as her own, pinning the crime on an exile she knew could not defend herself. For this treason, she is hereby stripped of title, stripped of property, stripped of home.

With the exile of Keh-Hind, the hindriarchy lies vacant, with no elders fit to take it. Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people. It will be a challenge to accept change, but we will be stronger for it.

The evidence is clear: Bey Lah's own Hindriarch has betrayed her people. She took our ancestral treasure as her own, pinning the crime on an exile she knew could not defend herself. For this treason, she is hereby stripped of title, stripped of property, stripped of home.

With the exile of Keh-Hind, the hindriarchy lies vacant, with no elders fit to take it. Eskhind will act as an interim leader until we figure out what to do next, as a people.

I fear dark times ahead. We must remain strong in the coming days.

You've found our treasure? I'll admit, kendren, I'm very impressed.

Take this as thanks, and... well. I suppose you've earned your stay for a while. Just try not to give the faundren any ideas.

Keh? I'm shocked that she even deigned to speak my name. I am a pariah now, beneath discussion. Does she demand remuneration for the scant supplies I stole?

What I stole? I stole supplies to sustain myself and my sisters, nothing more, and little enough that no one would suffer for its absence. You would cut those from my hide?

*Eskhind bursts into forced, nervous laughter*

Is that her angle? To claim that I stole Kindrish? Her influence must be waning more than even I knew.

What do you imagine I am saying? The aging, ineffectual leader of a village in isolation. A system that strives to forget anyone who sees the outside, no matter how much its inhabitants strive for a better tomorrow.

Bey Lah's isolationism provides ideal patsies for any crime the Hindriarch chooses to commit.

Yes. I am falsely accused. 

See, Bey Lah strives to forget anyone who sees the outside. The gerontocracy ensures that its leaders will always be aging and fearful. Pariahs like me can be easily accused of crimes committed by Keh or her cronies.

Well, good. I would give you a prize for your insight, but times have been lean.

As you say, the Hindriarch is obviously framing me. As a pariah, I am an ideal patsy for Keh. Much as I love my people, they are weak of will and do not question the Grand-Doe.

Ay, you kendren are just as thick as the elders. I'd hoped otherwise.

Yes, I am suggesting that old Grand-Doe is trying to fool you, and the village as well. I'm not certain that she stole it herself, but an investigation might undermine her authority, and she cannot have that.

Why should you believe me? Well, why should you believe Keh? Ayvah, think about this!

I'm not asking you to give me your unconditional trust, understand? Only to extend to me the same level of trust you give Keh. Is that not reasonable? Is that not just?

Ayvah. I'd wanted Grand-Doe to be wrong about you kendren, but perhaps you are all violent fools after all.

I'm not asking you to trust me, only to extend to me the same level of trust you give Keh. Is that not reasonable?

Rude? How dare--

No, I... I apologize for my rudeness. Please understand that we have lost so much by leaving Bey Lah. My mind is not in a gentle place, and being revisited by the tyranny I left behind is causing newly-closed wounds to open.

Forgive my tone, but please understand: I did not steal Kindrish. You are being used.

The proof is in the petals, kendren. You want justice? Find out what really happened.

If you find evidence, Warden Neelahind will support you. Speak to her. She is loyal to Grand-Doe, but more loyal to the truth.

I will return to the village and we will sort this out. The Hindriarch will have to tolerate my presence until my name is cleared.

Things are good. Better than I dreamed. I owe you so much for your intervention, =name=.

I still can't quite believe that my feelings are requited. I am at once elated and terrified. But this is good. My future is brighter now.

Thank you.

Ask away.

Why? Why did I leave a single parasang square piece of land upon which I was expected to live my entire life, forever obeying a woman whose sole qualification of rule is her gender and age? Why did I leave a place where we eat the same damned soup for nine out of ten meals and the height of occupational versatility is leatherworking?

The question isn't why I left, it's why I'm the only one who chose to do so, why none of my pleas were convincing to the hindren I love. If we would just open the borders, it would never have come to this.

The Hindriarch is the most likely suspect, in my opinion. She might have kept it for herself or sold it. I've been suspicious of her pet bodyguard, Kesehind, for years--I wouldn't put it past him to steal the treasure himself.

That said, it might have been an outsider like you. I doubt any of the villagers had the nerve to steal such a valuable object, but I suppose it's faintly possible.

But it wasn't Neelahind. You won't find a purer heart in all of Qud than hers.

Objects out of place, certainly. Bey Lah produces little and sees almost no violence, so signs of the outside world should be easy to find.

You may wish to talk to the villagers, too. My people are starved for entertainment, gossip travels fast, and we are all notoriously poor liars.

Yes. We were close. More than close.

If it tore my heart to ragged halves to leave my people behind, leaving Neelahind shredded it into scraps.

I have no brother. My two sisters are all the blood family I can claim.

Keh believes that she gets final say regarding who is a sister or brother. Regardless of what the sibling in question thinks.

That's part of why I left.

Oh. Oh no. Yes, that's. That's mine.

I meant to burn it. I probably should have burned it. I wish I had burned it.

May I please have it back?

You have me helpless. That poem is my clumsy expression of a deep truth that frightens me. It is a risk that I lacked the strength to take or leave.

My heart quails in your hands, kendren.

No! Yes? I don't know.

Yes, I wish I burned it, but I wish I had given it. I wish I had never written it, or I had written it better, or I had simply confessed in person. I wish I had a harder heart.

I wish you would give it back, or burn it, or give it to her.

I was trying not to think too hard about any of this until you found my poem, so... I can't say.

But I can't ignore this sign of my cowardice, not after you found it.

Kendren... =name=. I will try.

I... thank you. Live and drink.

Deliver it? But how do you even know who--

Mm. Never mind. My head is spinning. I think that if... the poem were to find itself in the warden's hands, that would perhaps be a good thing. Maybe.

Oh, so you have! Amazing work, kendren. We owe you more than we can give, but here is what we can give nonetheless.

You are more than welcome here in Bey Lah any time.

Extremely frustrating! But I am yet hopeful.

My people are resistant to change, but they don't seem opposed to the idea of a Democracy. I need to give them a measure of time before we hold an election, but they'll ultimately agree as long as I am acting Hindriarch.

Then, fates willing, they will vote me out. I'll be voting for Isahind, myself. Once I convince her to run.

I suppose.

*Meyehind casts you a withering glare for an extended moment, then whirls and walks away quickly.*

What's to tell? We are outcasts, pushed to the margins by our people for the crime of harmless deviance.

It's beyond perverse to call us back just so Grand-Doe can punish us further.

Hm! No, Eskhind wrote that, but I thought she burned it.

If you return it to anyone, you should return it to her.

.....

*she glares in silence*

... correct.

Eskhind didn't do it.

That's all I know. I mind my business.

You should too.

Oh! Eskhind wrote that.

You should give that to Neelahind. It was supposed to go to Neelahind.

No, no, give it to Neelahind.

Esk will thank you later.

No, that's not mine. But it looks lovely!

Do I look like a poet to you, kendren?

I am Kesehind, protector of Hindriarch Keh, the Grand-Doe of Bey Lah.

You may not.

I see. In that case, rest and speak a bit with me, won't you? My worries can wait another day.

That said, if you change your mind, you'll come find me, won't you?

Lovely. Take a seat. Chew the bark with me, and I will tell you what I know.

I've heard tell that my ancestral hometown, Bey Lah, is in some kind of trouble. They've opened their borders for the first time I know of and are specifically seeking to hire kendren -- that's their word for outsiders like you. Would you be willing to go see what they need?

My name is Lulihart. The blood of the hindren runs through my veins, but two of my three parents were kendren, so that blood is... dilute, and salt-brined from being born out here.

Dilute, salty blood. Heh.

My water goes to scouts to keep a distant eye on Bey Lah. To make sure that it is still there, still safe.

I have never been within a parasang of my people's land, but I know exactly where the once-hidden village stands. I will share this knowledge with you if you agree to consider whatever their request may be.

Even blood as thin as mine ties me to the cervidian meadow. The hindren may not say so, but they are my family.

I am not welcome in Bey Lah.

My blood is not pure, and I was not born in the meadow. These things make my name as salt in the mouths of true hindren.

They are misguided, but they are my misguided family. They stagnate as Qud changes around them. I worry.

Bless you, =player.formalAddressTerm=. I feel better knowing that at least one kendren will reach back to aid my kin. They are on the cusp of a new fate, and I wish to see it while I yet live.

Let me advise you of Bey Lah's location, and here is a little chew-boon for your trouble.

Poem? Oh! This is a Shakespriggan sonnet, but I didn't write it--the rhymes are a bit facile, and love poems don't interest me.

I've been teaching Eskhind about sonnets, so she must have written this. But that means... oh, poor thing.

I hoped you would ask! I closely study the works of the great bard, Willow Shakesprig. In particular, I am most fond of the stories of the Great Plant Detective, Hemlock Cones. Through these stories, I have learned to hone my perceptions and deductive skill to a fine point. It is my dearest hope that one day I shall be known not as Angohind, village bookworm... but Angohind, Master Detective.

My grandhind has forbidden me from looking into the strange doings in the village, but she said nothing about me teaching you the ins and outs of detective work! What say you?

Yes, yes of course.

I am Angohind: grandson of esteemed Elder Eselhind, young scholar of Shakesprig, and best dressed hindren in Bey Lah. I am also, as luck would have it, an aspirant investigator with an ear... for mystery.

My grandhind has forbidden me from looking into the strange doings in the village, but she said nothing about me teaching you the ins and outs of detective work! What say you?

Oh, truly? You won't regret this, kendren, I promise! So, let's get to it!

Every mystery hinges on the detection and interpretation of evidence. As Hemlock Cones said:

Ere any prosecution can commence,
Accusers must obtain some evidence.
The solving lies in seeing and locating
Supporting clues as well as implicating.

Professor Cones taught me everything about finding evidence!

Though evidence you found upon the ground may yet be sound,
If it will be sufficient is a toss-up.
Examine all your suspects and their homes and all around,
And find a witness who may dish the gossip.

You can find evidence by looking at things on the ground, but you can also look at your suspects to see if there's anything off about them. You can also ask around to see if anyone has seen or heard anything strange, and different witnesses may have different things to report.

Evidence is any sign of something gone amiss. The Great Plant Detective gave some good examples in Act II of the tragedy of Gimlet:

So! Sweep the full estate for signs of trade,
their shady night-time dealings to expose
Now look for signs of craft, see what was made
For to conceal a treasure hidden close.
But darker still, if illness signs we find
A desperate contagion may yet lurk
And darkest yet, more violence may reply
To those who stumble 'pon their grisly work.

Implicating evidence is what it sounds like: evidence that implicates someone's involvement in a crime. For example, if someone observed strange behavior in a person, or if you found something weird in a person's room, or even if you observe them behaving strangely =player.reflexive=! That's implicating evidence.

Most of the time, a piece of implicating evidence isn't proof of a crime in and of itself, but when presented alongside supporting evidence, implicating evidence is the seed of truth from which grows the long frond of justice.

Supporting evidence can be any sign that something is amiss that you can't directly tie to an individual. One common example is a bloodstain, which indicates that violence was committed but doesn't tell you by whom.

At its heart, supporting evidence is most powerful when paired with implicating evidence. Once you have both, you'll be in a good position to accuse a suspect of wrongdoing.

As Professor Cones said:

We know the reach of law, however long,
Is not the finest judge of right and wrong.
Choose not what evidence thou wilt present
Ere its consequence is evident.

In short, you must use your judgment and intuition, kendren.

That's always a risk, kendren.

Neelahind knows everyone in the village very well. If you present supporting evidence that contradicts something the Warden knows to be true about the suspect, well, she probably won't believe you. In fact, she might not let you accuse that person again, so be careful.

If you make too many bad accusations, you might lose credibility with her entirely.

Well, your conscience, surely.

You wouldn't be so unethical as to manipulate the resolution of a crime to your own ends. W-would you?

Precisely. The evidence you present paints a picture that will forever hang in the halls of Bey Lah's history. Our fate is in your hands.

Hemlock Cones once said:

As like begets like in daily life
so too in mystery.
Should I paint pictures full of strife
thus violence comes to be.
If I in craft or trade should deal
then deals shall deal by troth
But if I pestilence reveal-
no honey be enough.

Please, ask away!

*She gives you a hard stare.*

I am a Daughter of Exile, but you should call me Yla Haj.

Tinker-nuns. The world sees fit to call us that, my sisters and me.

Do you know the story told of Rebekah the Exile? She was a teacher to Resheph, but he excommunicated her from the sultanate and banished her from the realm.

To know her, I've chosen a life of unbelonging. And among my sisters, I have the honor of permanent residence by her gravesite.

I'll tell you this, traveler: the shape of a society is visible only from the outside, and there is peace beyond a boundary.

*Yla Haj pauses.*

You presume too narrow a meaning of "health".

Ezra sits in the shadow of history, where small things grow. It's the moss beneath the statue, quite literally. For centuries monarchs concerned themselves with felling trees, and now of the Covenate only Ezra remains.

It's home to Rebekah's gravesite, so for the Daughters, it is a sacred place. You may notice more of us on pilgrimage.

Zothom. I don't see utility in unkindness, but he's a fool. Were it that proximity to meekness made one meek...

I have no use for a man who seeks salvation in the body of a dead woman.

I don't.

I am no one of any importance.

But my name is Zothom, and some call me the Penitent.

I am no Warden. My only fellowship is with my own shame.

I watch over the Grave of Rebekah to atone for my deeds, and to find my credo.

I was once a vile graverobber, the lowest of the low. Years ago I sought to plunder the Tomb of the Eaters, and set off to do so with a pair of confederates. I watched both of them die, slain by ancient artifice and entombed with the ancient dead.

I would have shared their fate, but for a coterie of mopango nesting in the catacombs. They kept me safe and fed me while I treated my wounds. It is in their honor that I seek a credo now.

Is your motivation just?

Only those who pay their respects to the Grave of Rebekah will know the way into the tomb.

If you make it inside, the mopango will offer you solace and knowledge, and can tell you more about the Tomb's contents.

May you share my fate, then.

No.

Yes. It is a rite of passage for the mopango people: a statement that inspires contemplation, discussion, and thought. An ideal credo has no single explanation or interpretation and is meant to inspire contemplation in those who hear it. For this reason, it is considered rude among mopango to ask the meaning of a credo.

Someday I will find mine.

Mopango are plated, digging creatures whose armor scales glow a pale white. They are contemplative, sociable, and mostly peaceful. They commune with ancient objects, which is why a coterie of their kind lives in the Tomb of the Eaters.

They are patient even with rough-hewn wanderers such as we, but it's still not best to ask one to explain eir credo.

If you do find =player.reflexive= in the Tomb, the mopango settlement is nestled in the wall of the Northwest Catacombs. The entrance is guarded by a chain turret named Vivira, brightly-painted to distinguish em from eir brethren.

Resist your reflexive urge to fight or flee, as Vivira is friendly and open to parley. If you meet, tell em I sent you.

Rebekah was a physician, and an advisor to Resheph until she lost his favor. When, after years of exile, she lost her voice and her life, she was buried here, an outsider unfit to be interred with the honored dead. So she rests here.

I believe her proximity will help me find my credo.

HA.......

HA HA HA. So I am. I split stone and joggle my fingers at the salt sky. So I do today, so I did yesterday.

I tally so many autumns, but until I am black with rot, I cannot be ring-right. The etching on my undertrunk places my seed-date to the reign of =SULTAN4=, so I am told.

HA HA HA. I suppose so.

HA. I stood long enough. I joggled my fingers at the salt sky, and I watched thy seedlings sprout and wither, and I watched thou place stones in straight lines like the bees and their nests of wax. I stood until the stones were nigh by me. The people followed the stones.

Ezra is more than tree-old. It's stone-old. Seedlings have lived here since our roots dreamed of joggling their fingers at the salt sky.

They ate earth and belched freight at the stars, and this place was their stomach.

Later, as the Star-Tree died and they buried their dead under its roots, this was their funerary place.

Now, we nurse electric milk from the old and aching temple to turn our wheels and grind our seeds and grains. Now we are they.

Aye, the Blue Mother who breaks the sky. Those who Eat called her Gjaus, and those who Wake call her Spindle.

One called 1-FF, who wandered in errancy out from the Tomb and was reprogrammed by the Daughter who lived and died in the rot-black box, nine Daughters ago.

To the northwest seek the rot-black box. There a plant and Daughter live. There cats of chrome purr at tiny suns.

Ezra is old and has long since cut a groove into the world and resides there in stillness and harmony. But Zothom the Penitent One is a seedling, new to the world, and he quakes at all the tensing the world does. Perhaps you can share in his angst.

Go find him by the headstones for the dead.

I am Sixshrew, a merchant from the Consortium of Phyta disinclined to waste xyr time on talkative strangers.

I sell things, and you can buy them. I would in fact strongly encourage you to buy them, or be on your way.

Why are you called pest?

You are now.

Are you going to buy something, pest?

Just so.

Would you like to buy something, pest?

You're being a bit annoying, so I suppose both of us have our burdens to bear.

Perhaps we should do some trading and move on with our lives, hmm?

Oh, I'm fine, fine.

I simply adore being assigned this stinking backwater musa grove after decades of service, unceremoniously dumped in an office next to a fleshy tinker who works day and night, making all manner of racket through the thinnest, most conductive walls ever crafted.

What is it you humans say? "Living the dreen?" Yes, I am living the dreen.

*crackle, crackle*-othom? My sympathies.

=ifplayerplural:Ye are:Thou art= of course welcome here, wayfarer. Speak to Agyra an =ifplayerplural:ye need:thou needest= aught, as ey delighteth in hospitality.

*crackle-sigh*

I was being petty. The little time Zothom spent here felt like weeks, so conceited and aggressive was his grief. But Agyra would chide me for saying so. I have a long road to true self-realization, I realize.

But if you ask me, Zothom's road is far longer. *BEEP*

So I am told. I have never had the pleasure nor displeasure to meet another turret. I know only my friends here, who uplifted me by chance and cared for me by choice.

Wer't not for my shape, I wouldst be little different from other mopango.

=ifplayerplural:Ye know:Thou knowest= surely that this is the Tomb of the Eaters, but behind me lieth nestled a settlement occupied by the watchers of the tomb, a small coterie of mopango.

An =ifplayerplural:ye would:thou wouldst= know more of the settlement, =ifplayerplural:ye:thou= must ask the watcher named Agyra residing within. Ey loveth the sharing of knowledge.

Mopango are witnesses of the past and shepherds of the future. We seek peace and harmony through understanding the Kasaphescence and Her many children. We nonetheless eschew conformity, and each of us seeketh a personal credo by which we livest our lives.

But I am a poor teacher. Speak to Agyra, and =ifplayerplural:ye shall:thou shalt= gain better understanding.

I do.

"Form needeth not follow function."

*BEEP*

Credos hath no inherent meaning that one may so simply define. So =ifplayerplural:ye know:thou knowest=: asking the meaning of a credo is considered impolite among mopango.

*BEEP*
Better ridiculous than rude, which=ifplayerplural:ye plainly are:thou plainly art=.

*crackle* =ifplayerplural:Speak ye:Speakest thou= to Agyra. Ey hast more patience for rudeness than I.

All is forgiven, =player.formalAddressTerm=. I am not wroth with =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=.

Oh, so =ifplayerplural:ye have:thou hast=, and what a sight. Please forgive my distance, but I am loath to touch it.

It appeareth of similar make to the children, and I believe its jaw seeketh them. Lebah claimeth that the device grants freedom, and I wonder what that freedom will look like. Perhaps =ifplayerplural:ye should:thou shouldst= speak to the watchers of the children for further insight.

=ifplayerplural:Seek-ye:Seekest-thou= the repulsive device, then?

k-Goninon, ancient and venerated gelatinous cupola, doth patrol the catacombs. Arrived centuries ere we discovered this place, k-Goninon hath hardened and eateth not through the floor, and yet it eateth prodigiously. Safe from the conservators, as k-Goninon long ago consumed the Mark of Death itself.

Please be careful. k-Goninon hath devoured watchers and wouldst devour =ifplayerplural:ye:thee= as well.

I am Agyra, a watcher of the tomb.

I hope it is not overly crowded for =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=. We mopango are most comfortable in close quarters, but I acknowledge that not all creatures adore the close embrace of the depths as we do.

Regardless, =ifplayerplural:ye are:thou'rt= welcome to stay and sup, and ask of me any questions =ifplayerplural:ye may:thou mayest= have.

No one leadeth us. We mopango hold little regard for hierarchy, and our shared decisions are made through discussion, quiet consideration, and consensus.

Shouldst be otherwise?

*Agyra smiles at you, glowing softly.*

We are mopango: witnesses of the past and shepherds of the future. The Sacred Light of the Kasaphesence shineth within us, and we commune with relics of antiquity to maintain our humility and grow our wisdom.

We believe that one day, with enough knowledge, anyone who seeketh the Light shalt find it within emself. In the meantime, we work to become better and brighter as each one of us findeth a personal credo by which to live.

Aye. Ey, em, eir, eirs, emself. Thusly do we call ourselves and one another.

Sex is personal and mattereth not to a bare acquaintence. Gender is a societal relic in which we see no current utility.

*Agyra giggles.*

In the usual fashion, I believe!

To answer =ifplayerplural:your:thy= question more earnestly: we live long and reproduce rarely. Shouldst one of us wish to bear a child, a coterie of volunteers assisteth in the bearing and rearing. The details thereof art of no concern to =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=.

The Tomb of the Eaters consisteth of twelve strata, or ten, once =ifplayerplural:ye account:thou accounteth= for transitional levels: the Folk Catacombs (in which =ifplayerplural:ye currently stand:thou currently standeth=), the Crematory and Columbarium, the Two Crypts, and the Six Tombs of Qud's Sultans above.

An =ifplayerplural:ye seek:thou seekest= fortune here, gird =ifplayerplural:thyselves:thyself= for disappointment. The tomb playeth host to objects wondrous and profane alike, but little of what surface-dwellers considereth treasure.

Aye. One's own credo shouldst inspire reflection and thought, with no clear-cut meaning but meaning nonetheless. Some of our coterie yet seeketh theirs, but an experienced watcher no doubt hath one. Any mopango who hath a credo wilt share it with =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=, an =ifplayerplural:ye request:thou requesteth= it.

My credo is: "Malice alone staineth the sanctity of questioning."

I cannot simply explain my credo to =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=. A credo informeth and confoundeth at once, and must be reflected upon by the listener.

=ifplayerplural:Ye are:Thou art= inexperienced in our ways, so please bear my words in the kind spirit they are meant: to ask a mopango to explain eir credo is to commit one of our few taboo acts. Be advised.

Why do we speak strangely? Why =ifplayerplural:do ye:dost thou= speak strangely?

Is not all speech strange?

Maladies of the bone are not uncommon in our people. We build devices to assist friends who wouldst otherwise struggle to walk.

Answering =ifplayerplural:your:thy= questions giveth me satisfaction. Asketh an =ifplayerplural:ye will:thou wilt=.

I admire =ifplayerplural:your:thy= curiosity and hope =ifplayerplural:your:thy= prudence informeth it.

I have an example at hand. Mere days ago, one of our coterie named Lebah happened upon a repulsive device. Ey was so shaken after attempting communion with the object that ey hath spent less time away from eir nook than ever.

Our little sanctuary here hath a fissure in its inner walls. Find that gap and =ifplayerplural:ye will:thou wilt= find Lebah.

Please be gentle. Ey hath ever been the most insightful reader among us, but beareth the weight of an anxious mind.

... aye.

Ah.

Yes?

*Lebah curls into an armored ball and stops responding to your questions.*

Lebah.

"An thou art swallowed by the Gyre, sing thee to the last."

The meaning is plain: An =ifplayerplural:ye are:thou'rt= swallowed by the Gyre, =ifplayerplural:ye should:thou shouldst= sing to the last.

*Lebah stares at you wordlessly.*

Ah,

aye.

a most repulsive device. The mind-echoes of that communion yet haunteth me.

Not... the device. Repulsive as a key to a prison doth repulse. To know a key is to know of a prison.

Our watched children are bound, and lock swalloweth key. An =ifplayerplural:ye free:thou freest= one, three remaineth forever.

k-Goninon hath it now. An =ifplayerplural:ye seek:thou seekest=.

An elder ooze. My communion so disturbed me that I allowed them too close.

k-Goninon consumed the device, but I escaped.

I concern myself little with oozes but to stay away.

Please, no more. I tire. Talk to Agyra.

k-Goninon hath it.

Ask Agyra.

*Lebah nods to you, slowly curls into an armored ball, and speaks no further*

*Lebah yelps at the sight of the device, curling into an armored ball.*

*you receive no reply*

I am Doyoba, proud watcher of the children of the tomb. One child in particular. Of course =ifplayerplural:ye:thou= must comprehend, 'child' is but a fabricated epithet, as they are far older than we. The children are, that is.

We mopango watch the past, each of us a different facet. My charge is named Nacham, that which watcheth and understandeth not, that which speaketh and cannot be understood. Information floweth through Nacham as water through a sieve, mixed together beyond ken.

I do.

"Suffering breedeth in still water."

...?

=ifplayerplural:Ye ask:Thou askest= after the meaning of my credo. Wouldst I shall chew =ifplayerplural:your:thy= food for =ifplayerplural:ye:thee= as well?

No, no, =ifplayerplural:ye know:thou knowest= not our ways and I was too harsh. I apologize, and I am not wroth with =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=.

By Her Light, it's ghastly. May I touch it?

Oh.

Well then, I suppose I have no insight for =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=.

*Doyoba's face scrunches in pain as ey communes with the device, before finally pushing it back into your grasp*

By her light, that was unpleasant. How it twisted and turned, leading me to visions of Nacham's past, scraps and flashes. I can discern only glimpses of significance. Once a creator, an innovator. Can these parts of itself return intact, under the device's influence? An thou sendest void away, hast thou lost a part of thee?

I am Dadogom.

I watch over Va'am. It watcheth over me. Together, we watch.

=ifplayerplural:Ye should:Thou shouldst= as well, =pluralizeifplayerplural=delver. Sit. Watch. Consider how =ifplayerplural:ye would:thou wouldst= fare under a dome of adamant carapace.

Safe, undying, alone.

"Be still and know."

I cannot think on =ifplayerplural:your:thy= behalf.

Consider =ifplayerplural:your:thy= words ere =ifplayerplural:ye say:thou sayest= them, and =ifplayerplural:ye will:thou wilt= issue fewer apologies.

Ah. May I?

Ah, pity.

*Dadogom is still for a while, and you can see no expression on eir face. At last, ey returns the device.*

Unique. Puzzling, but clear. Painfully illuminating.

Grant this to Va'am and it shall become as 'twere once: still stalwart, but confined to a crawl no longer. At least, so I believe. Communion and certainty share no blood.

My name is Gyamyo. I am pleased to meet =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=, =name=. =ifplayerplural:Have ye:Hast thou= spoken to the other watchers? How fare they?

Well, I hope.

I have volunteered to monitor an ancient machine-creature called Kah. Perhaps =ifplayerplural:ye have:thou hast= seen it, skipping hither and yon on strange limbs.

Often I wonder if Kah knoweth aught else but fear.

I do, and I thank =ifplayerplural:ye:thee= for asking after it.

My credo is "Reconciliation without understanding is a salt poultice."

Oh dear.

This is the credo by which I live my life, and =ifplayerplural:ye ask:thou asketh= "what does that mean?"

I cannot summarize such a thing for =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=. It is too great, too multifaceted.

May the future bear out =ifplayerplural:your:thy= promises.

=ifplayerplural:Ye have:Thou hast= an object of great interest.

An =ifplayerplural:ye would:thou wouldst= allow, I'd fain commune with it.

Hm. I wonder at =ifplayerplural:your:thy= decision.

*Gyamyo moves little during communion, but shivers and twitches from time to time. After a minute or so, ey returns the device to you.*

I am shaken. No doubt my journey wast shallow compared to Lebah's dive. But now, by my troth I say: Kah hath ever been a being of motion. Swift, kinetic, and elegant. No doubt 'twould be so if freed by yon device.

=name=. Greetings. I am called Yona. =ifplayerplural:Ye seem:Thou seemest= unlike most other climbers. I wonder why.

=ifplayerplural:Have ye:Hast thou= seen it, out there? The spiny, eel-like creature. That is Dagasha, angry one, lost child. =ifplayerplural:Ye can:Thou canst= feel the hostility pour from it in waves.

Yet, it attacketh not.

Yes. "Anyone may strike a slumberling once."

Only a fool asketh after the meaning of a credo.

I am not offended, simply making =ifplayerplural:ye:thee= aware of =ifplayerplural:your:thy= foolishness.

I am consumed by curiosity. How it resembleth the children in make!

May I hold the device in communion?

Ahh.

Stranger, =ifplayerplural:ye are:thou art= cruel to withhold this experience, but I shall abide.

*Yona gasps upon touching the repulsive device, and eir eyes go wide. Ey is silent and still for nearly a minute, until the repulsive device tumbles from eir claws and you catch it.*

What was that? I need to know more. I know I cannot. Key to a lock of self? I feel great intellect and charisma bound up in Dagasha's prison-body, the mind of a leader, or a tyrant. Too much to know, too much unknown.

=ifplayerplural:Your:Thy= will hath great weight, wanderer. =ifplayerplural:Will ye:Wilt thou= free Dagasha?

*Swimming in sound, Nacham stares at you and looks away simultaneously, giving no indication of understanding.*

*You offer the repulsive device. As it nears the shining, dark surface of Nacham's shell, a sudden fervor seizes the device, and it twists itself free, latching onto the entity with the hooked teeth of its mouthlike appendage. Nacham reacts with a violent spasm, cable-limbs flailing as the entity staggers back.

*For a time, Nacham is still, but then it speaks, a chorus of voices finally speaking in unison:*

It ceases. At last it ceases.

Yes. =ifplayerplural:Ye have:Thou hast= quelled the mania.

I can focus. I can render sensible the things I have seen and heard now, though I remember little of my time before the mania. Was I artisan? Teacher? I possessed great knowledge that this shell twisted into a prison. I thank =ifplayerplural:ye:thee= for the gift of =ifplayerplural:your:thy= untwisting.

The mopango have cared for me whilst I could not care for myself, giving me the only name I now know. I will stay to help them. This chassis is a prison no longer, and perhaps deeper truths may yet be found within it.

To =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=, new friend, I offer a piece of this former prison that =ifplayerplural:ye may:thou mayest= find useful, along with my thanks.

*Dagasha tilts its head, staring you down. It twitches, but makes no move to strike as you approach.

*You offer the repulsive device. As it nears the shining, dark surface of Dagasha's serpentine body, a sudden fervor seizes the device, and it twists itself free, latching onto the entity with the hooked teeth of its mouthlike appendage. Dagasha rears back at once, its serpentine body twisting into thorny knots.*

*For a time, it is still. Then it uncoils, slowly, and whispers:*

I... am mine. Once again I am mine.

Though I be a pale shadow of the self I once was, yes. My condition and outlook are both substantially improved.

I recall few details of my life before. I was influential, one whose words stirred hearts to action. For so long I had no means to speak, trapped in my own moods. =ifplayerplural:Ye have:Thou hast= freed me from a dire fate.

I know not. Perhaps I can lead again. These creatures that looked after me, named me, kept me safe. The mopango.

They are kind, but weak. Perhaps I can teach them. Spur them to be greater.

But for =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=, I must even our score. Take this piece of my chassis. Wear it with confidence. Command in my name.

*Vaam seems oblivious to your words, but does slow its patrol as it nears you.*

*You offer the repulsive device. As it nears the shining, dark surface of Va'am's thick carapace, a sudden fervor seizes the device, and it twists itself free, latching onto the entity with the hooked teeth of its mouthlike appendage. Va'am shudders with such violence that its plates rattle against one another, and the light behind its faceplate dims.*

*For a time, it is still, its eye dark. Then a quiet but clear voice vibrates through the armored body:*

Ah.

Yes. I thank =ifplayerplural:ye:thee=.

=ifplayerplural:Ye have:Thou hast= freed me from a deep stupor. Once I was a protector, before being sentenced to protect nothing and no one.

I remember little of that time.

I have yet to find my purpose. I can think and speak, and so this shell is nearly comfortable.

One piece, however, doth yet chafe me. =ifplayerplural:Would ye:Wouldst thou= take it? Perhaps =ifplayerplural:ye can:thou canst= grant it some use.

*Kah skitters away, but soon returns, and skitters away a shorter distance. Whether because of your words or because you are still, its desire for flight ebbs over the course of a minute until its escape attempts halt.*

*You offer the repulsive device. As it nears the shining, dark surface of Kah's hide, a sudden fervor seizes the device, and it twists itself free, latching onto the entity with the hooked teeth of its mouthlike appendage. Kah scrabbles to escape again, but its limbs twist and collapse, rubbery and useless. Kah flails for a few moments before going completely limp*

*For a time, it is still. When it once again moves to clamber to the points of its shaky legs, Kah speaks in a smooth, buzzing voice:*

I feel... calm.

I am weary to my core, but at last this once-hateful body obeyeth me. I thank =ifplayerplural:ye:thee= for restoring my autonomy.

Memory of my once-self doth elude me, but I recognize the irony of my punishment. Once a strider, then sentenced to stride without restraint, forever. I knew only fear and flight. No more.

I shall enjoy my free mobility freely, for a time. After that, I know not. I may speak to these mopango creatures that named me, and find a purpose with them. I cannot ever repay their care, but perhaps I may repay thine.

I wouldst fain offer =ifplayerplural:ye:thee= a fragment of this form come loose. =ifplayerplural:May ye:Mayst thou= ever run free.

Saad, the bodi dien, but the mind romen.

Saad, stonden thu at the heigh gate to Brightsheol.
Saad, thyn heres been wet with olde lif.
Saad, shaken thyn hed and cross in-to neue lif.

No Saad Resheph residen her. 

Alofte of Gjaus a cite twinklen.
And ther the Seraph dremen.
And Brightsheol is the drem.

Artow a Saad of olde Salum, and nou stonden thu at the heigh gate to Brightsheol.

Saad, yis.

*The clothes shrouding Rainwater Shomer's form are still for many moments.*

The shomrim connen. Why oghte we?

*The clothes shrouding Rainwater Shomer's form are still for many moments.*

The shomrim remainen unbilefful.

*The clothes shrouding Rainwater Shomer's form remain still.*        

*The clothes shrouding Rainwater Shomer's form remain still.*

*The clothes shrouding Rainwater Shomer's form are still for many moments.*

Saad, the Seraph sprecen.
Saad, thu asken, and the shomrim assenten. 
Saad, wiltou return to Salum or crossen in-to Brightsheol?

Saad, nou-then return.

Saad, nou-then crossen in-to Brightsheol.

...oh..... I am Herododidcus, lapidary, lithographer, sculptor, calciminer, and biographer to the Coiled Lamb. I will tarry here until the Godhead passes on, and then I will canonize his deeds in high relief.

I've tarried for quite some time, now.... What a prodigious reign! Bless that Coiled Lamb!

.....oh.... oh.... Poor friend. The ironshank must be upsetting your digestion. The darkness must be blooming in your brain, making you slow and doltish.

The sultanate dissolved? Tidings would have reached me.... someone would have said so....

Oh... poor, doltish friend. You cantered too long outside the House of the Coiled Lamb, and now you are a dolt.

Herododicus pauses.

I do. It's... it's... I am required to know the Mark of Death. Otherwise, I wouldn't know when the Coiled Lamb was dea.. is no long... when... if he bore the Mark.

.....oh... Is this... is this a test? Do *you* know the Mark?

Herododicus whirrs fearfully.

The Mark is =MarkOfDeath=.

Oh! Brightsheol? The forever braid of life? The Garden Behind the High Gate? Why, you must rank among the crown echelon of machine and folk, and you must... well, you must...

Start to decompose. You must... You must be dead. Dead and entombed. The body remains, but the mind wanders...

Herododicus pauses.

Ye... yes? Is this a test? I suppose you... could we... could we have been in Brightsheol all along? Is that the answer?

Herododicus worriedly looks you over.

Should you be.... now I... I don't rank myself among the doyen on the matter of organic life... but my understanding is that the dead do not speak.

Besides, you... aren't the Coiled Lamb... are you?

That's not even how it works!

First, I image your head, read your self's narrative from the folds of your brain, cross-check it against the Thin World's ambient log of your life's deeds...

Then I... stylize... the story, and I engrave it on the walls. Once I'm done... then you can entomb =player.reflexive=.

Herododicus looks you over.

Coi... Coiled Lamb? Is it truly you? Are you dea.... are you dead?

Herododicus drops to their knees.

Oh, forgive me my insolence, Moloch!

Moloch! Allow me to explain the deification procedure, as it is clearly beneath your station to know!

First, I must image the great Moloch's head, read your self's narrative from the folds of =ifplayerplural:your:thy= Holiest Brain, cross-check it against the Thin World's ambient log of His Eminence's life's deeds...

*Herododicus whispers* I'm sure your version is the better one, Moloch...

Then I... stylize... the story, and I engrave it on the walls. Once I'm finished, the sarcophagus will open, and you can lay =player.reflexive= to rest!

Fine!

Herododicus shines a cone of blue light at you.

Starting ptychoscan............

...................................

...................................

Commencing cross-check with the Thin World annals............

...................................

...................................

Cross-check complete. Your narrative is compiled. Now to engrave it.

Peace.... peace to all who canter in the House of the Coiled Lamb.

As you wish, Moloch!

Herododicus shines a cone of blue light at you.

Starting ptychoscan............

...................................

...................................

Commencing cross-check with the Thin World annals............

...................................

...................................

Cross-check complete. Your narrative is compiled, Moloch. Now to go engrave it.

Peace.... peace to all who canter in the House of the Coiled... in Your House, Moloch.

'Tis a saying among the stonemasons, "Never finish a job too early." By the decretum of Sagittar, old as it is, they have until the Coiled Lamb is... is decom-.. passed... decompassed.... dead, deadlike... to complete their work on the Tomb.

Bless the Coiled Lamb, peace to those who canter in his house, and let us pray the day never comes!

{1.} Switch to the alternate keyset if you don't have a numpad.

Press 'Esc' then 'k' to view the key mapping menu. Press 'F2' to switch
keysets.

{2.} Hotkey your activated abilities.

Press 'a' to view your activated abilities on the Manage Abilities menu.
To bind an ability to a key, scroll down to the ability you wish to bind,
press 'Enter', then press the key to which you wish to bind the ability.

{3.} Scroll through your character menus.

Press 'x' to view your character sheet, press 'i' to view your inventory,
press 'e' to view your equipment, press 'q' to view your quests, press 'k'
to view the tinkering menu, and press 'p' to view your skills and powers.
You may scroll through these menus by pressing '7' and '9' on the numpad
(or your NW and NE keys if you are using a different keyset).

{4.} Look at things by pressing 'l'.

Press 'l' and scroll around to look at things. Looking at something can
tell you a great deal about it. For example, looking at a creature will
tell you the creature's name, physical description, approximate health,
equipment worn, your chance of defeating it in combat, and its attitude
toward you.

{5.} Interact with most objects by pressing 'Space'.

Open doors, talk to people, pick up items: all by pressing 'Space'.

{6.} Press 'Alt' for some additional information about the area.

Pressing 'Alt' will bring up an overlay with additional information about
the map. Staircases appear magenta, friendly creatures appear green,
hostile creatures appear red, chests appear yellow, items appear white.

{7.} Find a sidebar view you like.

Press '*' to scroll through sidebar views or press '/' to hide the sidebar.

{8.} Get acquainted with the common key mappings.

'-' or '<' to walk up stairs,'+' or '>' to walk down stairs, '`' to
rest until healed. Press 'Esc' then 'k' to view a list of the key mappings;
scroll down to a mapping and press 'Enter' to remap it!

{9.} Get acquainted with the weapon and armor stats.

Weapons have a penetration value and a damage value
(for example, 4 1d4). The penetration value represents the armor value
that this weapon will usually penetrate with ease. The damage value
represents the amount of damage this weapon deals per penetration.

Pieces of armor have an armor value and a dodge value. The armor value is
added to your character's armor value which represents how well protected
you are from physical attacks that hit you. Likewise, the dodge value is
added to your character's dodge value which represents how likely you are
to be hit by physical attacks. For both values, the higher the number, the
better. (See Attributes and Weapons and Armor).

{10.} Speak with Tam, dromad merchant.

Speak with the merchant Tam in the southeastern corner of Joppa. Press
'Tab' to trade with him. You'll be able to stock up on basic provisions,
weapons, armor, and ammunition.

{Strength}
Your strength score determines how effectively you penetrate your
opponents' armor with melee attacks, how much damage your melee
attacks do, your ability to resist forced movement, and your carry
capacity.

{Agility}
Your agility score determines your accuracy with both melee and ranged
weapons and your ability to dodge attacks.

{Toughness}
Your toughness score determines your number of hit points, your hit point
regeneration rate, and your ability to resist poison and disease.

{Intelligence}
Your intelligence score determines your number of skill points and your
ability to examine artifacts.

{Willpower}
Your willpower score modifies the cooldowns of your activated abilities,
determines your ability to resist mental attacks, and modifies your hit
point regeneration rate.

{Ego}
Your ego score determines the potency of your mental mutations, your
ability to haggle with merchants, and your ability to dominate the wills
of other living creatures.

{Armor Value and Dodge Value (AV / DV)}
Your armor value (AV) is a measurement of how well protected you are
against physical attacks that hit you. The higher your score, the less
likely an opponent's attack will do severe damage to you. Most characters
start with a base AV score of 0.

Your dodge value (DV) is a measurement of how likely you are to be hit by
physical attacks. The higher your score, the less likely an opponent's
attack will hit you. Your DV is modified by your Agility modifier. Most
characters start with a base DV of 6.

{Mental Armor (MA)}
Your mental armor (MA) is a measurement of how well protected you are
against mental attacks, much as your armor value is a measurement of how
well protected you are from physical attacks. The higher your score, the
less likely an opponent's mental attack will have a severe effect on you.
Your MA is modified by your Willpower modifier. Most characters start
with a base MA of 4.

{Quickness (QN)}
Your quickness score is a measurement of how quickly you perform each and
every action you take. Your base quickness score is 100. Note that there
are very few ways to augment this score.

{Movement Speed (MS)}
Your movement speed is a measurement of how quickly you walk or fly.
Your base movement speed is 100.

{Temperature (T)}
Your temperature is a measurement of how hot or cold you are. If you are
Cold, your quickness score is reduced by half. If you are Frozen, you are
unable to take physical actions. If you are Flaming, you take heat damage
every turn until you reduce your temperature.

{Acid Resist}
Your acid resist is a measurement of how much acid damage you ablate. Your
base acid resist score is 0. At 100, you are immune to acid damage.

{Cold Resist}
Your cold resist is a measurement of how much cold damage you ablate and how
insulated you are from effects that reduce your temperature. Your base cold
resist score is 0. At 100, you are immune to cold damage and your
temperature cannot be reduced.

{Electrical Resist}
Your electrical resist is a measurement of how much electrical damage you
ablate and how resistive you are to electric current. Your base electrical
resist score is 0. At 100, you are immune to electrical damage and you do
not conduct electricity.

{Heat Resist}
Your heat resist is a measurement of how much heat damage you ablate and how
insulated you are from effects that increase your temperature. Your base
heat resist score is 0. At 100, you are immune to heat damage and your
temperature cannot be increased.

Your skills and powers represent the abilities you have learned in your
life. Each skill has several powers associated with it. You begin with
several powers determined by your caste or calling. You may purchase other
powers by spending skill points which you earn when you gain a level (the
higher your intelligence score, the more skill points you earn).

To purchase a new power, you must first purchase the skill with which that
power is associated. You must meet any attribute or power requirements of
the skill or power you are trying to purchase. It is possible to begin
with certain powers without having the associated skills if your caste or
calling has granted you those powers.

Powers often grant you activated abilities. Once you purchase a power, you
may access your new activated ability from the Manage Abilities menu ('a').

Mutations are special biological powers gifted to the denizens of Qud --
true kin from the outer arcologies do not possess mutations. There are two
types of mutations: physical and mental. Each mutation has a mutation score
associated with it. The scores of your physical mutations and the cooldowns
of activated abilities granted by your physical mutations are static. On
the other hand, the scores of your mental mutations are modified by your
Ego modifier and the cooldowns of abilities granted by your mental
mutations are modulated by 5% for each point of Willpower you possess above
or below 16.

Most characters begin with mutation scores of 1. You earn a mutation point
when you gain a new level which you may spend to augment the score of one
of your mutations by 1. The mutation score of none of your mutations may
exceed 1 plus your character level divided by 2. Additionally, mutations
may only be augmented by mutation points up to a maximum score of 10,
though your mental mutations may exceed this score if your Ego further
augments them beyond 10.

Alternatively, you may spend 4 mutation points to choose a new mutation
from three randomly selected mutations. The mutation you choose begins
with a score of 1. If you are a chimera, you are offered a choice of
physical mutations, if you are an esper, you are offered mental mutations,
otherwise you are offered three completely random mutations. Mutations
often grant you activated abilities. Once you gain a mutation, you may
access your new activated ability from the Manage Abilities menu ('a').

Defects are mutations with primarily negative effects. Certain mutants
begin with a single defect. There is no score associated with defects.

Artifacts are items so technologically complex that few of Qud's denizens
understand them. An unidentified artifact will appear to you as a
"Weird Artifact". You may examine an artifact to try to identify it. If you
are successful, you will narrow down the possibilities of that artifact's
function (what was once a "club", for example, you may now identify as a
"rifle"). Eventually you may completely identify the artifact. Each time
you attempt to identify something and fail, however, there is a small
chance you will break it. Your chance of successfully identifying an
artifact is based on your intelligence score.

Tonics are chemical concoctions that enhance your mental and physical stats
in a variety of ways. They are artifacts, and so you must successfully
identify them to understand what they do. Ingesting one tonic while under
the effects of another is dangerous; for each new tonic you ingest, there is
a greater and greater chance that the tonics will react adversely to each
other. The higher your Toughness score is, the greater the chance that you
will be able to ingest multiple tonics without incurring undesired effects.

Tonics produce more potent effects in true kin than they do in mutated
humans. Also, as the body chemistry of mutants is inherently unstable,
there is a 5% chance that a tonic ingested by a mutant will instead produce
an undesired effect.

Tonics may be concocted with the Tinker skill. In addition to bits,
concocting a tonic often requires a natural ingredient.

{Weapons}
Every weapon has a penetration value and a damage value
(for example, 4, 1d4). The penetration value of melee weapons is related
to your strength score, though the value is capped based on the material of
the weapon ('l'ook at a weapon to view its penetration cap). Swords and
daggers have penetration values equal to your strength score. Axes have
penetration values equal to 1 plus your strength score because they are
highly penetrating. Cudgels have penetration values equal to 2 plus your
strength score because they are rattling and less dependent on your
opponent's armor. Missile weapons have static penetration values that do not
change based on your strength score. Weapons may modify other statistics;
'l'ook at a weapon to fully determine what it does.

{Armor}
Most pieces of armor have an armor value and a dodge value
(for example, 4 	4)) that augment your own AV and 	DV (see Attributes).
Pieces of armor may modify other statistics; 'l'ook at a piece of armor to
fully determine what it does.

{Melee Combat}
Melee combat is combat between two adjacent opponents with standard melee
weapons such as swords, daggers, axes, and clubs. To attack a hostile
adjacent opponent, simply move in the direction of the opponent. To attack
something else, such as a non-hostile opponent or a wall, hold 'control'
and move in the direction in which you wish to attack.

When you make a melee attack against a target, the following sequence of
events occurs:

{1.} Determine whether or not you hit the target.
Your to-hit roll is 1d20 plus your agility modifier plus any bonuses you
receive from your weapon or skill powers. If this roll exceeds your
opponent's dodge value (DV), then you hit. An empty circle icon over your
target indicates that your attack missed.

{2.} Determine whether a shield block takes place.
If the target has a shield equipped, they have a base 25% chance to block
with it, increasing with skill. A successful block adds the shield's armor
value (AV) to the target's AV for this attack.

{3.} Determine how severely your attack penetrates your target's armor.
Each weapon has a penetration value (4, for example). This value
represents the armor value (AV) that your weapon will usually penetrate
with ease. If your weapon's penetration value far exceeds your target's AV,
your weapon will likely penetrate several times. Each time your weapon
penetrates your target's armor, your target is dealt damage equal to your
weapon's damage value (1d4, for example). A filled circle icon over your
target indicates that your attack hit but failed to penetrate your target's
armor. A heart icon indicates that your attack hit and penetrated your
target's armor.

{4.} Determine if multiple attacks are made.
There is a 15% chance that you make an additional attack with your
secondary hand. Characters with multiple limbs may make additional attacks
beyond this.

{Missile Combat}
Missile combat is combat between two opponents with missile weapons such
as bows, pistols, and rifles. To make a missile attack, press 'f' to aim
your weapon, then 'f' again to fire.

When you make a missile attack, the following sequence of events occurs:

{1.} Determine the trajectory of your missile.
How far a missile is likely to veer from its projected path is determined
by your agility score and the weapon's accuracy.

{2.} Hit the first medium-sized or larger object along the missile's
trajectory.

{3.} Determine how severely the missile penetrates your target's armor.
This is resolved in the same way as a melee attack.

{4.} Determine if multiple attacks are made.
Certain powers allow you to fire multiple missiles with certain missile
weapons.

If you are engaged in melee combat with more than one hostile opponent,
there is a 50% chance that each missile attack you make goes wild (veers
45 degrees to the left or right).

The amount of time it takes to do something is assessed in terms of an
action cost. Most tasks have an action cost of 1000. Your Quickness
increases the rate at which you recover this cost, enabling you to act
more often than slower creatures.

Some skills, mutations, and equipment enable you to take specific actions
at reduced or zero action cost.

{
                                 Created by 
                      Brian Bucklew and Jason Grinblat

                            Tile Art - Samuel Wilson
                       Music && Sound - Craig Hamilton
              QA && Additional Design - Nick Decapua
            QA, Additional Design, &&
              Additional Programming - Matthew Sheahan 
         Additional Writing && Design - Caelyn Sandel
                      Background Art - Cyril van der Haegen
                            Logo Art - Laura && Jeff Bucholtz
                    Additional Music - Brandon Tanner
              Additional Programming - Corey Frang 
               Community Management - Ivy Melinda

                               Special thanks
                                  Ashenai
                               Riley Vincent
                                   Gibbed
                                Floorislava
                                 Dr Amazing
                                  Devonaut
                                    Vaos
                                   Tyskil
                                   Lakren
                                   Stelas
                               Social Animal
                                Contra Duck
                                 Saberwulf
                                 Megaflare
                                 Doctorfrog
                                  Palecur
                                 NovaPolice
                                  Mirdath
                                  The Glow
                                   Dyzzy
                                  Schister
                                Lazybuttons
                                   Colonp
                                    Niff
                                 Matterhorn
                                  Clamiam
                                   Donraj
                                Randy Marsh
                                   Rabbi
                                  Getter77
                                  Capuchin
                                Wafflecopter
                                  Nomikos
                                  Magitek
                                Andrew Smash
                                   Vastin
                                   Frumple
                                   Sappho
                                  Soulwynd
                                  Cpbpunch
                                   Tarran
                               Brian Turcotte
                                    Oryx
}

  License for Harmony (https://github.com/pardeike/Harmony)

  MIT License

  Copyright (c) 2017 Andreas Pardeike

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
  copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

Journey north of Joppa to Redrock.
Find the creatures that are eating Joppa's watervine.
Collect a corpse of one of the creatures.
Return to Joppa with the corpse of a watervine eating creature
from Redrock.
Travel to the goatfolk village and find Mamon Souldrinker.
Return the amaranthine prism to Warden Indrix.
Search Qud for an artifact.
Return to Argyve with the artifact.
Search Qud for another artifact.
Return to Argyve with the artifact.
Search the Rustwells, east of Joppa, for 200 total feet
of Copper Wire
Deliver 200 feet of Copper Wire to Argyve
Travel to the ruined, subterranean gate northeast of Joppa.
Locate the Barathrumite enclave within Grit Gate
Ask the Barathrumites about Argyve's strange signal.
Travel to the ruined, subterranean gate northeast of Joppa.
Locate the Barathrumite enclave within Grit Gate
Ask the Barathrumites about the strange signal.
Travel to the great cave Golgotha north of Grit Gate.
Find a dysfunctional waydroid among the ruins of Golgotha.
Repair the waydroid.
Return to Grit Gate with the waydroid and speak with
the Barathrumites.
Speak to Q Girl in the workshop and ask her to encode her instructions
for the baetyl onto the disk.
Travel north to the great cavern Bethesda Susa and locate the
Mechanimist temple.
Infiltrate the Mechanimist compound, engage the baetyl, and
decode the signal.
Return to Grit Gate and speak with Otho.
Journey to the far Northwest, through the Great Salt Desert, and visit
the Mechanimist cathedral and merchant bazaar.
Travel north to the Spindle at Omonporch.
Take control of the grounds beneath the Spindle.
Return to Grit Gate to report your success.
Access the mainframe and scan the shale surrounding the enclave.
Speak to Otho to via the mainframe room intercom or in person.
Power laser emplacements, power force projectors, overclock chromelings, and activate Rodanis Y in preparation for the Putus Templar attack.
Defend Grit Gate from its assailants.
Speak to Otho to assess the losses suffered in the attack.
Get the blueprints for the climber to deliver to Pax Klanq.
Decipher the first part of the enigma.
Decipher the second part of the enigma.
Decipher the third part of the enigma.
Get Pax Klanq to agree to fabricate the climber from Q Girl's design.
Return to Grit Gate and speak to Barathrum.
Travel to the hidden village of Bey Lah and investigate the problems there.
Find Eskhind and retrieve Kindrish.
Speak to Warden Neelahind, who was close friends with Eskhind.
Speak to Keh with news of Eskhind.
Give the crumpled sheet of paper to its author or intended recipient.
Tell Bey Lah's Warden about the disputed nature of Kindrish's theft.
Discover all evidence that might lead to the thief.
Speak to Warden Neelahind with evidence of the event and accuse the thief that took Kindrish.
Find Vivira, a friendly turret in the Northwest catacombs, and tell em that Zothom sent you.
Ask Lebah about eir encounter with the repulsive device.
Locate k-Goninon in the Folk Catacombs and recover the repulsive device.
Ask the mopango watchers Dadogom, Doyoba, Gyamyo, and Yona about the repulsive device.
Choose how to best apply the repulsive device.
Recover the lost sigil used by the Eaters to mark their dead.
Tattoo the mark on your body.
Gain entrance to the sealed Tomb.
Ascend the Tomb and find Resheph's burial chamber. From there, discover a way to travel to Brightsheol.
Access the Spindle's control unit and turn off the field.
Return to Grit Gate and speak to Barathrum.
You are skilled at acrobatics.
You are skilled with axes.
You are skilled with bows and rifles.
You are skilled at cooking and gathering meal ingredients.
You are skilled with crushing and bludgeoning weapons.
You are familiar with the customs and folklore of Qud.
You are skilled at two-weapon fighting. Your chance to attack with an offhand weapon is increased.
You are skilled at enduring harsh conditions and situations.
You are skilled at first aid.
You are skilled with heavy weapons.
You are skilled with long thrusting and slashing blades.
You are skilled at convincing others.
You are skilled with pistols of various kinds.
You are skilled at maintaining self-discipline.
You are skilled at wielding shields.
You are skilled with small one-handed knives and blades.
You are aware of basic combat tactics.
You are skilled at examining, building, repairing and modding artifacts.
You are skilled at wilderness survival.
A hideous specimen.

A corpse.

A chunk of metallic debris.

A slab of raw meat.

A solid wall.

Anarchy is wound into stasis by time's virtual antipode and packaged into a metal disc. Only the instruction of movement will direct it to unaccrete.

A small sphere.

Shadowing segments arrange along the ley lines of this plane to form a geometric mesh. Objects on orthogonal trajectories are netted and shunted back toward their planar homes.

The forces of slaughter have rearranged parts of the body. You ponder how rearrangement means something different in each of its contexts: pieces on a game board, favored courtiers in a king's hall, and parts on a body.

Fire has poached the light from this body. Its stillness writhes against the changing soil.

Who's preserved the skins and innards of this still one? Was it the dry air of Moghra'yi? Or the doting persistence of human ritual? Does it matter?

The blood is still wet. Never had you regarded wetness as a sort of clock, until now.

Here lies a humanoid who'd have never guessed their torso would shelter dust from the gills of tiny mushrooms, but should have.

Plumes of noxious gas stick to the air. They crowd the lungs of wet-blooded creatures who can't extract the displaced oxygen.

Bone bits are aerosolized into a thick coal fog. Light is lost inside.

Hot aerosol swells as it starts to dissipate into air.

As clouds descend on a warm valley, so does escaped cryo vapor on its surroundings. Objects come through the translucent mist in waves.

Even now the nimbus of vaporized acid is condensing, starting to settle on its colonized surfaces, starting to sink through their soft edges.

The nickel-dew sticks to the air and arrests the transient molecules of migrant-matter.

Miasma settles the lungs of its neighbors and guides them to the dreaming dale. Their bodies repose.

Cobalt gas seeps into the nose and disarranges the mind.

Tongue, nail, and spleen were caked together then lacerated by heat to airy dots of dung.

Gas molecules arrange along the ley lines of this plane to form an aeriform mesh. Objects on orthogonal trajectories are netted and shunted back toward their planar homes.

The synthetic mist called Golden Dawn ascends from its canister to atomize leafage and leave a clear view of the horizon in its wake.

Magenta showers the heterotrophs in a wet film that inhibits their absorption of dead animal and plant-things.

Minuscule hexagons of crushed glass, insect parts, and polyester film twinkle in the air like the ionized helium of star dust.

A silver cylinder with a pull ring.

A thick cylinder with a pull ring.

A lightweight cylinder of thin metal.

A warm sphere with a recessed button on top.

A cool sphere with a recessed button on top.

A pineapple-like ovoid, with a pull ring.

A surprisingly heavy, egg-shaped, translucent grenade.

A metal shoal encases the hexahedron. When the grenade is turned, it snaps to discrete positions as if it were a flipbook sketch with missing pages.

A pale white cube, with a band of magenta metal running along the side.

A pale white cube, with a band of silver metal running along the side.

A pale white cube, with a band of gold metal running along the side.

A sleek, chrome ovoid. It hums in vibration.

          2d100+20 damage to structural objects.
          2d10+20 damage to non-structural objects.

A sleek, chrome ovoid. It hums in vibration.

          4d100+20 damage to structural objects.
          4d10+20 damage to non-structural objects.

A sleek, chrome ovoid. It hums in vibration.

          6d100+20 damage to structural objects.
          6d10+20 damage to non-structural objects.

A bowed pipe with a pull ring.

Scissor-like hinges fold metal rods into a tight sphere that's ready for isokinetic expansion on impact.

Sand piles on the bottom side of this tetraxenon hourglass. When turned, the sand pours.

Thousands of mirrored facets form a spherical polyhedron. Light dances on its surface.

A heavy, translucent egg-shaped device.

A palm sized disk of jet black plastic, covered in strange runes.

Every autumn, many gulch dwellers hike to the Stiltgrounds to purchase the Fall wine. They return to their homes, steep wheat bran in the wine, and leaven dough in their clay ovens. A few are luckier; fungus grove dwellers need only step outside to harvest yeast, and friends to fungi need only shake their yeast-ridden appendages.

Cheesecloth sticks to the greasy faces of this pig cheese cuboid. For two years tiny organisms have accumulated on its surfaces, ripening it to tasty perfection.

Leafy malachites and pistachios are bound by twine. Every third day or so, a leaf tics and twinges, as it still adjusts to the untoxic air.

Spongy foodstuff molded into a slate-hued cube of perfect proportions. What forces married the messiness of eating with the precision of cubes?

The truffle is encrusted with a wine-colored char residue born of gases unknown to the world's surfaces. Deep, deep in the earth and across the Pale Sea was it smoldered to succulence.

Seasoning the minced meat that's trapped under the crust is a smidge of yyffur dust, shaved from the stalk of the eponymous mushroom and finely ground. The whole mushroom is much too powerful for a mammalian psyche (consuming one would obliterate the ego in mere moments), but a smidge of dust on a tasty pie can remind one of one's place in the cosmos.

Only the familiar nursery rhyme courses through your brain.

The Grizzly Bear is huge and wild; 
It has devoured the infant child. 
The infant child is unaware;
It has been eaten by the bear.

A small, normal looking bush. It's hard to pay attention to such a mundane specimen.

A large prickly looking fellow, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:loom:afterpronoun= with the threat of physical violence, or even a hug.

A svelte, candid seeming chap. You realize that the flower is a sex organ, and that gets you thinking.

A gnarly mass of heaving tentacles, looks like something a fisherman's wife would enjoy.

A stout being whose bark is worse than =pronouns.possessive= bite.

A small pile of quivering hyphae, the fungus seems quite content.

Images of distant places and times past, present, and future shimmer in the space before you. Strange sounds whose makers inhabit those innumerable vistas stretch through your ears, echoes of an astral continuum.

Set in the middle of the great white head of this ape are two red eyes that gleam with a savage intellect. Snowy white fur covers the ape's hulking frame. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:lift:afterpronoun= an enormous fist and =verb:beat:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= chest in fury as you approach.

The snow white pelt of an albino ape, prized for its beauty and capacity to provide warmth.

A hulking, alabaster ape corpse.

From atop =pronouns.possessive= sunning boulder, this small monkey =verb:peer= at you with eyes full of curiosity. Two puffs of grey fur billow out from either side of =pronouns.possessive= face.

This bear hums a tune to =pronouns.reflexive= as =pronouns.subjective= forages for berries and honey, offering laconic greetings to everything =pronouns.subjective= passes.

Though =pronouns.possessive= ursine kinsfolk oppose gravity and chase prey up the splayed branches of trees, the barkbiter knows what natural philosophers know: with some beseeching, the tree and its occupants will descend of their own accord.

A large, rotting mound of flesh.

A bloody, stinking hunk of barkbiter flesh.

It sheaths itself in filmy wings.

A huge mound of rotting flesh.

A bloody, stinking hunk of bear flesh.

Orbicular beetle that roams and ingests.

Plump wedges of beetle meat encased in a cracked, bulbous shell.

A squat, snouted mammal in pink flesh.

This ill-tempered, bristled pig struts about on stubby legs.

A bloated lump of boar remains.

A slab of rotting boar meat.

A stinking lump of pig remains.

A slab of fresh pig meat.

Slavering muzzles snap at each other as it ambles around in choleric hunger.

This stout human's bare skin is pallid from years of abstaining from sunlight. =pronouns.Possessive= eyes are glazed and bestial; isolation has rendered =pronouns.objective= more of a beast than =article==pronouns.personTerm=.

A man beyond the pathogen: muscles bulging in grotesque asymmetry, skin both gnashed and scaled, teeth filed into fangs, quivering pupils dilated to the size of coins, and sclera raw with tributaries of blood.

Spindle-limbed, brown, and skittish, it spins a home anxiously.

The fine glass-like fibers of this compact feline's coat collect and bend the light of far stars into strange, semiophorous loops.

phosphorescent

The taut muscles of this wild cat are sheathed in interlocking, maize plates of chitin.

Thatched together out of scrap metal, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:teeter:afterpronoun=. What was the artist and maker thinking while banging metal into a likeness? =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:occupy:afterpronoun= a point between poles on several axes: halfway between chimp and human, halfway between child and adult. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:are:afterpronoun= small, and there are shadows under =pronouns.possessive= chrome cheek.

Shem has augmented =pronouns.possessive= body beyond the chromeling's basic form by welding on a dissymmetric ruffled coat of scrap metal. It's too big and grandiose for =pronouns.possessive= little figure, but Shem shuffles about confidently, as if =pronouns.subjective= expect to grow into it. 

With a shell no larger than a human fist, this crab scuttles through a vent curiously suited to the dimensions of =pronouns.possessive= figure. Often accompanied by dozens of =pronouns.possessive= ghastly cousins, the jittering decapod means to devour all living matter =pronouns.subjective= =verb:pass:afterpronoun= over.

The head and torso of the cloneling are comprised of skull-sized, hexagonal pyramids of polished chrome. Four many-jointed chrome rods swivel from =pronouns.possessive= core, wielding rusty scalpels, and another hangs limply: the cloneling's genetic nanoprinter.

Ideas like the tetravalence of carbon and silicon were suffocated in the thick valley air of jungle hamlets. The human gatherer who mounts a root-braided hillock and looks out to the horizon in wonder, who descries flecks of granite stirring on the mountain face, and who with ancestral dread ponders what toll the rocks themselves are animated to collect, he can't know the miracles of chemistry that sophists inscribed in data disks at the Long Before. Those miracles are to him the ciphers of god-things.

=pronouns.Possessive= hoary, cracked scales look like marked stone.

A slab of croc meat.

Limbs like fur-dressed spindles spring =pronouns.possessive= slender frame across the brachiated world. One eye breaks the plane of =pronouns.possessive= furless face. A lack of depth perception would inhibit =pronouns.possessive= throwing efficacy were =pronouns.subjective= not able to triangulate =pronouns.possessive= viewing plane with =pronouns.possessive= duplicates.

A snarling mess of matted hair.

This snarling, spotted dog trots back and forth.

A large, beige mastiff sits perched on stiff front legs.

That's a dead dog.

A stoic, long-necked mancamel.

This crumpled corpse of a mancamel stinks of spice.

A stoic, long-necked mancamel, this trader belongs to the race of mercantile desert-rovers who men call Dromad.

An arch of electricity writhes between the two feelers of this shoulder-height snail. =pronouns.Possessive= muscular foot disappears beneath a striated, brownish shell.

Shockingly scrumptious.

Trudging along at a snail's pace is a bear-sized shell splendiferously adorned by nature. Roiling citrine, frozen azure, and polished jade spiral inwards and out in perfect mathematical harmony.

Like your mother baked it.

The slimy shell of a hatched snail egg.

A slimy egg covered in tiny, hairline cracks.

A pulpous, plum-colored slug races across the floor.

The tiny hairs of this dog-sized spider stick straight up and crackle with electrical energy.

Tiny hairs stick straight up from the charged, crumpled corpse of this spider.

This feathered serpent =verb:glide= upon great, leathery wings. The air about =pronouns.possessive= colorful plumage shimmers with heat, and =pronouns.subjective= =verb:leave:afterpronoun= in =pronouns.possessive= wake a blazing trail.

Feathers of every color flit about the warm, curled corpse of this winged reptile.

Char coats the prismatic scales of a coiled ring of meat. It smells like an open flame.

The chrome from which this six-legged robot was wrought is tarnished. Where one might expect the head of a beast to rest upon =pronouns.possessive= torso, there is only a smooth semisphere. At the extremity of each of =pronouns.possessive= cyclindrical arms is a conical drill whose spinning produces an ear-splitting whine.

The musculature of this strapping, tranquil beast is so pronounced that =pronouns.subjective= =verb:look:afterpronoun= as though the muscles themselves might burst through =pronouns.possessive= rich, auburn coat. Great tufts of white hair surround =pronouns.possessive= massive hooves, which =pronouns.subjective= =verb:rear:afterpronoun= every so often while =pronouns.subjective= =verb:graze:afterpronoun=.

This strapping beast's body lies in regal repose.

This squat, ivory crab has evolved a heightened sense of hearing in order to perceive =pronouns.possessive= surroundings in the lightless nooks =pronouns.subjective= =verb:inhabit:afterpronoun=.

The pearly, convex carapace of an eyeless crab.

The cracked, lifeless shell of an eyeless crab.

Delicious, meaty crab legs.

This enormous crab scuttles forth beneath a cavernous ivory shell large enough to house a man and a bedroll, and in fact Qud's subterranean hermits are known to take up residence in the flaking shells of dead king crabs.

The enormous, lifeless shell of a deceased king crab.

Enormous, meaty crab legs.

A giant ant whose antennae writhe about furiously. Plumes of noxious gas rise out of dozens of tiny pores scattered across =pronouns.possessive= carapace.

A giant ant whose antennae writhe about furiously. Plumes of fragrant smoke rise out of dozens of tiny pores scattered across =pronouns.possessive= carapace.

Much like the children of =pronouns.possessive= colony, the queen fire ant's onyx carapace fumes with pungent smoke. However, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:are:afterpronoun= much larger than the other fire ants, and on =pronouns.possessive= back =pronouns.subjective= =verb:bear:afterpronoun= a pair of filmy wings with which =pronouns.subjective= =verb:conduct:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= nuptial flights.

A smoldering, upturned ant corpse.

A halo of smoke surrounds an orb of calefaction.

The skin about this squat pig's snout is blackened from the heat of =pronouns.possessive= nasal blazes. A single plume of smoke curls upward out of =pronouns.possessive= nostrils.

The blackened corpse of this pig slowly roasts itself.

This stout, thickly-muscled herbivore is intensely territorial, violently attacking anything that crosses =pronouns.possessive= path.

Spindle glitter rained from heaven and sowed the holoptic valley of the adiyy's eye. It sprouted gluttonous molecules that sucked the hue from the bug's head, chest, and wings. It unrendered the adiyy, and left it to flit from leaf to leaf, half-blind and dirgeful.

Humors are the eroded bits of the earth: dust flaked off a million-year-old wall of shale, runoff brine dripped through a hairline crack of chrome, dew clung to the lips of a pipe after it's belched its septic vapor. Under the right conditions, at time scales inscrutable to kith and kin, the bits are heaped together by the geometry of entropy and remorphed into the prime material anew.

A mass of quivering, gelatinous slime. You barely perceive the outline of something inside.

This is a huge mass of stinking slime, slowly leaking its vital jelly into the floor below.

A goat-sized beetle with a striated, onyx shell.

A sticky mess of beetle flesh.

A simulacrum of a goat-sized beetle with a striated, onyx shell.

A python-sized arthropod undulates forward on hundreds of chittering legs.

Big diaphanous wings bat the air as it drones in place.

Bristling with coarse, odious stalks of Girsh hair is the thorax of this gigantic fly. =pronouns.Possessive= thousand eyes reflect your image in the color of rust, and from within =pronouns.possessive= mouth an eerie, jaundiced light glows.

A truly grotesque creature, the agolzvuv appears to be a massive and un-naturally twisted fly. The enormous forelimb barbs of this flightless terror are hung with bits of flesh from =pronouns.possessive= previous victims, slowly rotting for later consumption.

Black ooze drips from =pronouns.possessive= fangs to =pronouns.possessive= pallid leg-things. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:shudder:afterpronoun= in primordial ecstasy and =verb:let:afterpronoun= out a shrill whine that pierces your skull.

Pallid leg-things twitch with zoetic insistence.

The roiling, flailing husk of some sort of Qud worm. =pronouns.Possessive= body and mind have been twisted by the dark energies of the deep caves of Qud.

Lucent skin blooms beneath matted feathers. =pronouns.Possessive= tiny beak is hooked.

The smoldering remains of a dead crow.

Luminescent flecks flit beneath the water's surface.

Dimmed motes dot the scales.

A constant rain of gorgeous sparkling dust drifts down from the glowmoth's wings.

The glowmoth corpse gives off a lovely radiant heat as it slowly decays.

A disc of leaf with luminous veins.

The curled, tough corpse of a glowpad is indistinguishable from a giant brussel-sprout.

This glowpad seems to be... running a small shop?

Beneath the umbra of a stinking robe, flesh smears over the bones of =article==pronouns.immaturePersonTerm= who =verb:surrender= =pronouns.possessive= body to the metamorphic numen.

This tonsured albino has ceremoniously pierced the flesh of =pronouns.possessive= neck with hundreds of urchin spines. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:chant:afterpronoun= the hymn of the hoary demon Bethsaida as =pronouns.subjective= performs a mixing rite, pouring a vial of blood into a vial of luminous water.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:chew:afterpronoun= cud without a care for the mess in =pronouns.possessive= tangled beard.

A bloated corpse of a goat.

A slab of mild smelling goat meat.

A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over =pronouns.possessive= swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to =pronouns.possessive= hip. =pronouns.Possessive= hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from =pronouns.possessive= bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath =pronouns.possessive= chin.

The stinking corpse of a mangoat.

The skin was flayed from the body of this goatfolk leaving behind a crumpled frame of tendons and muscles rotting in putrid, black blood.

Fire burned the flesh and charred the bone of this mangoat. All that remains is a blackened skeletal frame covered in molten, glutinous tissue and crumpled on the ground.

A small, warm seed.

Mamon =verb:stand= nearly a head taller than =pronouns.possessive= kin and broader at the shoulders. Great tufts of blood-matted hair, some of which is braided, tassel out from =pronouns.possessive= head and chin, and a tattered, crimson headdress hangs from one of =pronouns.possessive= colossal horns. In long swaths on =pronouns.possessive= bare chest the fur is scorched and the skin flayed. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:wear:afterpronoun= a sarong wrapped about =pronouns.possessive= waist, its wool fibers sodden with a foul, inky liquid. =pronouns.Possessive= face is a vision of madness, at once the countenance of a rapturous crone and a child in fright.

The patchwork of ash and dirt-caked hides make a gradient of flesh across the hermit's body. =pronouns.Possessive= hair has knotted into a rat's nest. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:scream:afterpronoun= in a tongue of =pronouns.possessive= own invention.

Tiny skin crystals shift and sort, changing the color of =pronouns.possessive= appearance. A narrow bone extrudes from =pronouns.possessive= head.

A thick cord of bristly segments are capped by a cuspate beak for breaking through shale.

A slab of mild smelling worm meat.

The young knollworm secretes an epoxy-like resin that hardens into plates when compressed by shale.

The distended jaw of this large aureolin fish is lined with wicked, blade-like teeth. You shudder to imagine what sort of terrible amphibious fiend the madpole might one day become.

It's a little cartilaginous, but tasty.

This awful, chimeric beast is known to take any number of forms to fool =pronouns.possessive= prey, though no one knows whether =pronouns.subjective= truly =verb:assume:afterpronoun= those forms or merely =verb:trick:afterpronoun= the minds of =pronouns.possessive= quarries into believing it so.

A droid who shares the stature and girth of a short, rotund man. =pronouns.Possessive= hull is covered in verdigris, and for limbs =pronouns.subjective= =verb:bear:afterpronoun= a broad shovel and a hacksaw.

A droid who shares the stature and girth of a short, rotund man. =pronouns.Possessive= hull is covered in verdigris, and for limbs =pronouns.subjective= =verb:bear:afterpronoun= a broad shovel and a hacksaw.
-----
Reprogrammed by the Mechanimists

=pronouns.Possessive= deepest encoding is the following moral imperative: 'extinguish spatial and temporal anomalies, be they the result of happenstance, maleficence, or planar kismet.'

Hermetic cask, hose, and nozzle. Inscribed are the words: 'in case of dimensional emergency, spray'.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:gulp:afterpronoun= and =verb:shiver:afterpronoun= tufts off =pronouns.possessive= rime-tarped nostrils.

A soft mash of gooey, stinking flesh.

The long lathe of time shaved the prospects from beneath a reptile's feet until =pronouns.subjective= hid in a shell of plastron and carapace, brooding and peevish.

A massive, cracked tortoise shell, filled with delicious turtle meat.

Its swollen tubers hum.

The starchy tuber of a dreadroot.

Its aspect imbued with lucent coral, this mushroom catches your eye like no other. Qud knows no such hue, and so you ask =player.reflexive=: what sort of radiant rain dyed its flesh? Could it be an iota of the Eaters themselves, mummified in the soil of the Rainbow Wood?

Your eyes lose focus in the spongent craters of a coral moon. Is this the flesh of gods?

The remains of a human adult.

Poking out of a pool of coral resin are the unbleached bones of a human adult. Its remains have seeded a grove of otherworldly shrooms.

Poking out of a copse of brinestalk are the unbleached bones of a human adult.

=pronouns.Possessive= leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid.

Standing taller than a snapjaw and three times as wide, the blossom of the feral lah resembles a bundle of freshly severed saltback tongues. Its bouquet can only be described as 'sweaty animal', and its flabby leaves stand poised and ready to bludgeon anyone who dares to get close. Several thorny rhizome pods pulse near its base like a clutch of eager children.

Racing across the ground at alarming speed, the brittle rhizome pod digs into the dirt with its thorns as it seeks meaty vessels to explosively gift with its genetic material.

Auric gills tense and release, tense and release, tense and release, as if drawing breath into the puffer's stem. With each exhalation it belches a cloud of golden spores like motes of sunlight. They flutter back to the cap and congeal into a golden plasma.

Azure gills tense and release, tense and release, tense and release, as if drawing breath into the puffer's stem. With each exhalation it belches a cloud of indigo spores like motes of twilight. They flutter back to the cap and congeal into an azure plasma.

Rose gills tense and release, tense and release, tense and release, as if drawing breath into the puffer's stem. With each exhalation it belches a cloud of indigo spores like motes of twilight. They flutter back to the cap and congeal into an rose plasma.

Jade gills tense and release, tense and release, tense and release, as if drawing breath into the puffer's stem. With each exhalation it belches a cloud of indigo spores like motes of twilight. They flutter back to the cap and congeal into a jade plasma.

It's a luminous toadstool coated in hoarfrost.

Matted fronds sway in the air currents and speckle the ground with flakes of moisture-sucked rust.

It's a crunchy and red stalk of celery.

Verdurous cirri mottled with thorns reach for the warmth of a body. They hug the air in desperation.

It's the rare and beautiful blossom of a jilted lover vine.

From the great, sloping forehead of this man-ape sprouts no hair, though rich black fur courses over the rest of =pronouns.possessive= body. Broad knuckles bear the brunt of =pronouns.possessive= weight as the beast =verb:saunter= forth in search of something to clobber.

The filthy pelt of an ogre ape.

It's the stinking corpse of an ogre ape.

A bulbous snag of a plant, unshy about sharing =pronouns.possessive= spines.

A stygian spongeball is stuck to the floor and dappled with dream dew.

A stygian spongeball is stuck to the floor and dappled with disorienting dew.

=pronouns.Possessive= shell is the color of air-sucked iron. =pronouns.Subjective= waves a monstrous claw in hostility, and blood-crusted rust flakes are shaken free of their serrated home.

The massive, armored corpse of a Rustacean. It smells of old blood.

Muscovite fronds slouch under their mineralic weight. Whatever nears and eclipses its sunlight is flogged for its wrongdoing.

In its infancy, rock streamed through the planet in plumes of magma, spilled into hushed caverns, and quickened pools of protoplasm out of its stilled inertia. Plates slipped and matter was crushed, pressurized. Later, as entropy bore cracks into the crust, sticky lifethings fused to the rock and scuttled forth. In geological terms they are tiny things, but you insist that scale is the wrong one.

The bright red, rock-encrusted corpse of a great magma crab.

Words fail to contain the paradox of =pronouns.possessive= domesticated immensity.

Drifts on the cultural seas have swept a particular fable to your attention. Long ago, far away, folks supposed all of everything rested on the back of a world-tortoise. Surely that flight of fancy came to someone gazing on a Great Saltback... or does your own vision echo through the past to partake in its creation?

Here an ossified world occupies space. It's only dead in the narrow sense. The yeast that colonizes its ridges doesn't see it that way, nor does the yearning past.

Everything near the bantam mammal is damp: fur, hair, leaves, soil, slick silver alloys. It's as if =pronouns.subjective==verb:'re:afterpronoun= a furry world unto =pronouns.reflexive=, and the sweet, sickening, evaporated honey about =pronouns.objective= is =pronouns.possessive= atmosphere.

Albino legs thrust =pronouns.possessive= turgid thorax through the air.

A sharp, sticky mandible.

Broken chitin.

Chitin was shaved from the exoskeletal flank of a caught salthopper and dry-beaten to a snappy crisp.

Ovoid spots, crimson and coral and citrine, run the course of =pronouns.possessive= torso and head.

This robot =verb:bear= a featureless chrome plate for a face and treads for locomotion. Attached to the ends of each of =pronouns.possessive= grooved, steel arms spins a rusty rotary saw.

This ancient medical robot is shaped like a squat, friendly dwarf, with =pronouns.possessive= painted features long worn away to swaths of pitted metal. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:reach:afterpronoun= a helpful arm out, holding a stubby booster injector, ready to cheerfully cleanse the world of all its varied disease.

It's a small crossbow with a wide barrel to hold darts.

This massive dirt-cowled leech undulates towards the smell of blood.

This huge, bloated leech's skin is taut, =pronouns.possessive= insides full of drained blood.

Verdurous leaves crushed flat cloak the diminutive figure against the jungle's undergrowth. But the Naphtaali ruse doesn't end there. A mask weaved from coarse plant fiber veils the emotive face of the rootdweller. Only the trees know whose hoary visage they don.

Skimming the underbrush, sailing on air, a shiny ooid of perfect chrome reflects the dim light peeking through the canopy's braided tresses. A larger version of the knit mask worn by the Naphtaali rootdwellers adorns =pronouns.possessive= surface in imitation of a face. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:rotate:afterpronoun= with specious purpose.

Like a leaf-strewn mound of root lies the corpse of a Naphtaali rootdweller.

There are inglenooks on the hearths of spacetime where darkling things are. They are impossibly cavernous and yet impossibly narrow. Thusly it's explained how this gargantuan spider has legs that are crushed into the paper thinness of the void. They rise in lines like black braids in the night until a joint shunts them off in another direction, back toward the thing's crumpled thorax and panting glands.

The stony, sloughed skin of a basilisk.

This arthropod =verb:undulate= forward on hundreds of chittering legs. Tiny, needle-pointed quills jut out from between plates of chitin along =pronouns.possessive= protracted body.

The hulking corpse of an enormous, spiny quillipede.

Inverted hands are soaked in the blood of fauna whose minds were tricked by the patterned bunches of its unbananas. Its fronds are stiffer than its looksake.

A mass of flesh two stories high, the salt kraken dominates the landscape, churning the earth beneath =pronouns.possessive= inexorable advance.

A hulking mass of decaying flesh, the corpse of the salt kraken smells of the distant west wind.

Motes of salt fill the notches in =pronouns.possessive= chitin, which form a record of every other scorpiock =pronouns.subjective==verb:'ve:afterpronoun= wrestled and garroted. Behind, =pronouns.possessive= stinger coils in harmonic perfection.

It's the bloated corpse of a scorpiock.

A slab of scorpiock meat.

Glistening barrels of silvery fleshstuff shudder in ecstasy until they tear into two, pause in a moment of reprieve, then resume their rapturous dithering.

Tissue was mineralized while it grew and then snapped off the tree of living things to become an artifact of life.

These appear to be the flattened remains of some vainglorious humanoid.

The patchwork of burnt metal and rust-flaked rivets make a gradient of newflesh across the hermit's body. =pronouns.Possessive= hair is knotted into a rat's nest and held high by a barrette of broken glass. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:scream:afterpronoun= in a tongue of =pronouns.possessive= own invention.

A massive, muscular boar, with an un-naturally long snout. The torpid slugsnout can spit massive, solid slugsnout slugs, made out of the compacted undigestible sinew of =pronouns.possessive= prey, out of =pronouns.possessive= slugsnout snout.

Each head of this bristled pig bears two elongated snouts through which it sneezes rock-hard pellets of dried mucus.

Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright =pronouns.subjective= =verb:stand:afterpronoun=, but =pronouns.subjective= =verb:look:afterpronoun= ready to drop onto fours. =pronouns.Possessive= snout snarls and =pronouns.possessive= ears twitch. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:bark:afterpronoun=, and =pronouns.possessive= hyena tribesmen answer.

The thing's pulvilli crackle and pop to an aharmonic rhythm. It caroms from spot to spot, galvanized by a primordial impulse.

The bowl-like scutum is scratched in the furcate patterns of an electric arc.

A squat, jittery insect, the spark tick ripples with tiny arcs of static electricity.

A weapon mounted on an automated tripod.

A semi-automatic pistol mounted on a small tripod.

A chaingun mounted on a tripod.

A laser mounted on a tripod.

Three steel barrels fit together into an arc-edged triangle of luminous ritualism. They sit on a servo-articulated base mount.

A rocket launcher mounted on a tripod.

Delicate, viridian tendrils curl inward, and then spring open and loosen seeds at high speeds.

Compacted seed matter that's been stuffed into the leaf-mitt of a coiled tendril.

You nearly mistake it for a boulder, and then you spot a crease in =pronouns.possessive= hide as =pronouns.subjective= =verb:draw:afterpronoun= a slow, hibernative breath. Suddenly you understand the saying among pig farmers: always fear large rocks.

The umber brown spitting slug produces an acidic slime, which =pronouns.subjective= both =verb:secrete:afterpronoun= and =verb:hawk:afterpronoun= at =pronouns.possessive= adversaries.

This slender, spidery robot jaunts lightly, carrying a single slender tube which trails a thin wisp of smoke.

Concentric chrome discs are bracketed at sixty-degree arcs.

Caked gundust is painted on the inner lune of the mortar.

An asymmetrical jumble of girders and thin wire, an arcwyrk =verb:appear= to be just another pile of rubble. Only when =pronouns.subjective= =verb:spring:afterpronoun= to life, =pronouns.possessive= countless limbs popping with thousands of electrical sparks, does =pronouns.possessive= great danger present itself.

Chrome beams stamped flat and run in parallel.

It thrashes its synthetic serpent body. Its skin erupts in electromagnetic eczema.

Cables purled together form the barrel of a blastgun that fires along the cambered electromagnetic field lines.

A massive mound of rubbery flesh.

A hulking, brutish troll, recently budded from =pronouns.possessive= agamogenetic parent.

An enormous, muscle-slathered anthropoid figure, =pronouns.possessive= roiling flesh bulging with spawning sacs nearly ready to begin budding.

The troll called Jotun slumps beneath the weight of =pronouns.possessive= broad and cragged back. Soaking fibers of inky, unkempt hair enswathe the great, pale rocks that are =pronouns.possessive= shoulders. Crossed over =pronouns.possessive= chest are two carbide axes, their shafts knurled and rotting with rust. Jotun's rumpled eyelids lay half-shut over the discs of =pronouns.possessive= sluggish eyes as =pronouns.subjective= =verb:recline:afterpronoun= in =pronouns.possessive= bath of convalessence.

A latticework of frost sticks to Fjorn-Kosef's coarse beard and bushy brow hair. The great, bony slab of =pronouns.possessive= head is obscured behind =pronouns.possessive= icy breath, and swathing =pronouns.possessive= anemic, misshaped arms are long strands of icy filament.

The wraith troll, a shade of a shade, Haggabah =verb:are= discernible only as a shadow that is somehow darker than the absence of light.

A roiling mass of psychically innervated tissue, a twinning lamprey is never for want of company.

This three-span, rust-hued arachnid is so named for =pronouns.possessive= instinctual ability to displace those who threaten =pronouns.objective= by folding space in the local area.

Air is synthesized into spacial displacement in the arciform chambers and shunted through the aether.

This hulking, four-legged monstrosity =verb:prowl= the landscape ceaselessly. =pronouns.Possessive= protuberant head scans the horizon slowly in =pronouns.possessive= ageless quest for timelost prey.

A kinetic energy weapon with a massive barrel.

Tiny granules of ice stick to the violet frill of this frigid iguana.

A mountainous pyramid of chrome hovers about you. The volume around it appears furrowed somehow, and sound only comes through in waves; it's as though space and time themselves were crumpled away before the thing's very presence.

Girded in chrome is a hundred-dimpled titan, an egg sac where rocket children ignite on their mother's back, explode into aether, and congeal again in the conflagrative consummation.

A man-sized cylinder hovers just above the floor. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:emit:afterpronoun= a low, menacing hum as =pronouns.subjective= =verb:glide:afterpronoun= slowly, searching for intruders with =pronouns.possessive= many protruding sensor arrays. A long, articulated arm, ending in a sparking rod, dangles from =pronouns.possessive= side.

A gang of tiny, plastic gyroscopes undulates toward you. For what purpose were they originally designed to serve? The echo of that memory has long since waned in the chrome halls of Qud.

A small, gnarled machine. =pronouns.Possessive= form has been twisted by long years repairing =pronouns.reflexive= with the random detritus of Qud.

A massive tube of muscle, tipped in a beak built for grinding stone.

A gooey mound of knollworm flesh. It smells vaguely of mushrooms.

Bloated pustules of noxious gas quilt the abdomen of this writhing, pallid maggot.

Scintillating.

Rather than spend its energy growing resilient to trampling, this grass takes a more offensive approach to groundskeeping.

The fluted stem of tassled yonderbrush.

Packed into rents in the shale are spinescent shoots of blooming ivory.

Spiny mineral nodules are camouflaged against stone and chrome.

This fungal hypha is encased in a razor-sharp metallic exoskeleton.

Shining hyphae pour their soft light up into the orbicular cap of the earthlamp.

Wearing simple robes, the pilgrim's visage is surprisingly calm, given =pronouns.possessive= surroundings.

Mottled leaf-chutes are splayed out in a rosette. Dust appears and disappears in swirls.

A chrome obelisk bedims the floor in =pronouns.possessive= gigantic shadow, and metal comes screeching to genuflect at =pronouns.possessive= base.

Iron fragments mottle its cankered surfaces.

=pronouns.Possessive= cylindric head is embellished with a frilly crest whose symbolism is unknown. =pronouns.Subjective= dutifully marches on a pair of chrome pistons toward =pronouns.possessive= final purpose.

Leaves swaddle its hundred segments and lashed root matter squirms out of its tail end.

Plies of nest-skin swell and contract as if the thing were taking breaths. Its darkling cavities glint with larvae burning to be born.

Life's blossoming ringlets were freed from their orb-womb of carbon.

Stilt pistons fire in alternating quatro and tote the miner and =pronouns.possessive= mines in esoteric patterns across the ground. When =pronouns.possessive= topographic instincts are sated, a hatch opens and =pronouns.subjective= =verb:lay:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= explosive egg.

Triangular leaves pant in the salt-sucked air, and the flowerhead angles its sharp thistles to thirsty attention.

Springy skin is contracted into a taut globule notched with abeyant thistles.

Rust-flaked trash from a cross-section of eons functions as =pronouns.possessive= habit, contoured to =pronouns.possessive= body by a lifetime of wear.

Mottled leaf-chutes are splayed out in a rosette. They sizzle and pop.

Organic matter is liquefied by the agents of decay and pressurized by tight spaces into the shapes of prismatoids. Galvanized by a cousin-instinct to hunger, the gelatin entity now extrudes itself forward in wedge form.

Fur is matted in blood-brushed clumps across =pronouns.possessive= skin; long fangs break the plane of =pronouns.possessive= bristly snout. =pronouns.Possessive= hindlegs tic and =pronouns.subjective= reaches with =pronouns.possessive= forepaws for the reassurance of the dirt. In the earth's lightless recesses, troglodytes are reclaimed by the primal forces that once shucked them toward civilization.

Viscous germ sticks to rusty iron.

It sheaths itself in filmy wings and brandishes an ionized proboscis.

Mottled leaf-chutes are splayed out in a rosette. They sputter and smolder.

Its ringed stems are bruised and discolored where the memory of rejection has swelled the sap against their skin. They slink across the wall, greasing themselves in lubricant and then dissolving it with a frying hiss.

Fat was shorn from =pronouns.possessive= spindle-limbs on the psychic lathe. The irises of =pronouns.possessive= eyes are patterned on shapes that cannot be drawn in the geometries of the natural world. =pronouns.Possessive= weapon is immaterial but inseparable; it was spun from the same thoughtstuff as =pronouns.possessive= ego.

Organic matter is liquefied by the agents of decay and pressurized by tight spaces into the shapes of prismatoids. Galvanized by a cousin-instinct to hunger, the gelatin entity now extrudes itself forward in frustum form.

Rolling scales tessellate =pronouns.possessive= husky, slouching form, and motes of condensate stipple =pronouns.possessive= swollen chin.

Mist steams from the cracks between its drying scales.

Aromatic dew dampens the deflated flaps of tissue.

Mist-damp tissues were ground in a mortar, simmered in brine, and congealed.

Mottled leaf-chutes are splayed out in a rosette. They all bear the same imperfections.

Depigmented belly skin is tumefied with crushed insect matter into a gigantic and ripe pearl. Its legs have been resorbed by fat; the art of jumping mastered by its forebears survives only through ancestral memory.

A large, rotting mound of frog flesh.

A bloody, stinking hunk of frog meat.

Organic matter is liquefied by the agents of decay and pressurized by tight spaces into the shapes of prismatoids. Galvanized by a cousin-instinct to hunger, the gelatin entity now extrudes itself forward in prism form.

Urchins stick to the scum-slick tissue of a cavernous mouth while soft-rayed fins drag the mammoth fish body across the ground.

A large, rotting mound of fish flesh.

A bloody, stinking hunk of fish meat.

Metameric flesh rings are joined into a line and crammed along a waveform. When one of a trillion-per-second random fluctuations causes the cosmic fabric to ripple, the worm aligns itself into a pattern of constructive interference and is shunted forward.

Once quartz crystallized on the skin of a monkey bathing in the steaming pools of the subterrane. =pronouns.Subjective= was sculpted by the rasp of pressure and the hand of time, and now =pronouns.possessive= throated vowels bounce toward the ear of the void.

Thorny roots furcate into neuronal likeness. Their dendritic tubers await binding.

Starchy dendrites were slashed from the earth and shaved down.

It sheaths itself in filmy wings and brandishes a sanguine proboscis.

Chrome plates the mangonel's bucket and hollow arm, where fulcrete blocks are channeled from their cubic arsenal and loaded into place.

Evolutionary pressures have reshaped the anatomy of the voider: fangs have descended from =pronouns.possessive= basal segment, the arciform chambers of =pronouns.possessive= shunting gland have fractalized, and =pronouns.possessive= frame has grown an order of magnitude to match the predatory potency of =pronouns.possessive= other advantages.

Dusky petals lean toward an inner point of harmony and form the promise of a beautiful flower cup. Light drips off the boundary of its influence and seeps into the void.

Light drips off the lunes' boundaries of influence and seeps into the void.

Fat was shorn from =pronouns.possessive= spindle-limbs on the psychic lathe. The irises of =pronouns.possessive= eyes are patterned on shapes that cannot be drawn in the geometries of the natural world, and =pronouns.subjective= wears a blindfold to guard their secrets and mark =pronouns.possessive= ken. =pronouns.Possessive= weapon is immaterial but inseparable; it was spun from the same thoughtstuff as =pronouns.possessive= ego.

Organic matter is liquefied by the agents of decay and pressurized by tight spaces into the shapes of prismatoids. Galvanized by a cousin-instinct to hunger, the gelatin entity now extrudes itself forward in cupola form.

Rolling scales tessellate =pronouns.possessive= monstrous, slouching form, and motes of condensate stipple =pronouns.possessive= swollen chin. =pronouns.Possessive= tail is stretched and cracked with advanced age.

Pressure shaved a plane from the face of a quartz crystal. Chance laid it on the stone floor with tenderness.

A thousand echo-worlds are scattered across the ground.

An artifact rent from a mirror world.

It glints as it scuttles beneath an alighted exoskeleton of angled glass.

It sheaths itself in filmy wings and brandishes a tissue-boring proboscis.

Eight rings of pointed teeth rasp away tissue, and =pronouns.possessive= suction-cup mouth latches onto the exposed spinal column and sucks out the raw nerves. =pronouns.Possessive= glands are fat with stolen memories.

A large, rotting mound of fish meat.

Nerves are raveled into a labyrinth and bundled together with limpid tissue.

Behind the glass membrane, inside a microcosmic globe, heat gives birth to lobes of molten rock that flow toward their own pyroclastic demise.

Organic matter is liquefied by the agents of decay and pressurized by tight spaces into the shapes of prismatoids. Galvanized by a cousin-instinct to hunger, the gelatin entity now extrudes itself forward in antiprism form.

There's an oculus in the center of the dragonfly drone's sensory array. It unshutters with a whir and emits a glowing beam of force.

Rents in =pronouns.possessive= scales widen as =pronouns.subjective= flexes =pronouns.possessive= petrified joints, and dust powders the ground beneath =pronouns.objective=. Under =pronouns.possessive= stalactite eyelids, a lithifying bale is whisked into focus.

Heat, pressure, beauty, and transformation are concepts understood by every manner of human being. When the sundry tribes commune by campfire and the hillfolk aver the godliness of the mountain face, so does the troglodyte speak with wonderment of the splayed crystal-things that glint in the shadows of her cave. Though neither has the language to articulate the mechanisms that connect them, together they know these things are the same.

Thorny roots, swollen with age, furcate into neuronal likeness. Their dendritic tubers await binding.

Dusky petals lean toward an inner point of harmony and form a beautiful flower cup. Light drips off the boundary of its influence and seeps into the void.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:flicker:afterpronoun= behind =pronouns.possessive= marble coat, synchronously inhabiting this dimension while stalking the dreamy corridors of =pronouns.possessive= own chimeric world.

Fat was shorn from =pronouns.possessive= spindle-limbs on the psychic lathe. The irises of =pronouns.possessive= eyes are patterned on shapes that cannot be drawn in the geometries of the natural world, and =pronouns.subjective= wears a blindfold to guard their secrets. =pronouns.Possessive= weapon is immaterial but inseparable; it was spun from the same thoughtstuff as =pronouns.possessive= ego. Around =pronouns.possessive= neck =pronouns.subjective= wears the ornamental ruff; =pronouns.possessive= mastery of combat has given =pronouns.objective= access to a sight older than sight.

Vast diaphanous wings painted in the furcate patterns of fractalized geometry bat the air.

Particles spin in the molecular orrery of =pronouns.possessive= engine and whir against =pronouns.possessive= chrome-plated chassis. Life-lint powders the inside of =pronouns.possessive= elliptical cannon.

This animate sac of brown sludge rolls along the floor. Through the thin membrane that keeps it from spilling out of itself you spot a shoal of eels swimming about.

The skin of this sly fish is slick and diaphanous. It writhes around Golgotha's fetid pools unseen, wrapping itself around the legs of hapless trudgers and drawing them into the guck.

This animate sac of black ooze rolls along the floor. Through the thin membrane that keeps it from spilling out of itself you spot a shoal of eels swimming about.

This animate sac of luminous ooze rolls along the floor, unknowingly guiding those spry adventurers who would ply the halls of Bethesda Susa.

This animate sac of green goo rolls along the floor. Through the thin membrane that keeps it from spilling out of itself you spot a shoal of eels swimming about.

The colossal slug known as Slog presides over =pronouns.possessive= fetid domain of the Cloaca. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:bathe:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= bloated, slimy body in moiling pools of dross, keeping =pronouns.reflexive= moist and waiting for fresh prey to be churned into =pronouns.possessive= lair. Whereas nature had the decency to end the body of the common slug in a muscular foot, Slog's tail is instead a sphincter-choked bilge hose that =pronouns.subjective= =verb:use:afterpronoun= to spew at =pronouns.possessive= prey the filth of the Cloaca.

Wet rings of shuddering muscle shrink and spew body broth in peristaltic waves.

The grotesque, still-undulating husk of Slog.

Brumes of spinning mold-dots make the air look fuzzy.

Rime-dotted nodules crust over the infected skin, where an algid mist clings. The fungus colony has terraformed the epidermis into what looks like a miniature range of ice-capped peaks.

Tiny spore-motes flutter down from the fleshy gills that twitch on the striated skin. Trapped inside are another thousand spores waiting to be jostled free.

Dozens of tiny mouths tessellate the infected skin, their moist lips pursing in asynchronicity and panting out prattle. Every so often, the cacophony harmonizes into sensible speech.

A wax-weeping fungus has encased the appendage in a lucent cast. Body heat melts the innermost layer, and a thick, waxy milk sloshes against its hardened prison.

Honestly, a little creepy.

Quickened to life, or something akin to life, by the ionic exchange between an ultra-reactive primordial soup and its liquid cousin, the sludge repeats a process played out on trillions of star-orbiting world-rocks.

Is it a coincidence that the knotted, erumpent throng of organ that is Pax Klanq is shaped in the vague form of a humanoid, or is the prodigy fungus welcoming =pronouns.possessive= extradimensional anthropoid visitors with a warm gesture? In either case, =pronouns.possessive= splendid orange cap looks like a fancy hat. The semblance ends there, however; in place of a face, there's only a trio of undulating tentacles.

At the edges of your field of vision, more tentacles writhe over tools, books, circuitboards, frog cadavers, and saltwater pearls. You realize just how many things Klanq does at once, and you wonder at Nature's decision to bestow peak organic wit to a fungus.

A meter-wide sphere sits on a nest of splindly metal legs. The surface of the orb is covered in faceted eyes.

A dog-sized translucent box hovers quietly. Four glowing thruster-pods twitch on outstretched gimbals, constantly adjusting for minute eddies in the air. Underneath the box hang a variety of many-tooled tendrils.

A tiny quadrapedal machine; above it an antenna whips about, surrounded by a flourescent green haze.

The Issachari nomad stands shrouded in robes tattered and sun-bleached. A kufiya wrapped around =pronouns.possessive= neck and face protect against poisoned salt.

Wearing unusual foreign clothing, the caravan guard presents an exotic form.

The face of =pronouns.indicativeProximal= trenchcoated =pronouns.personTerm= is masked beneath the brim of a black hat, but you safely assume it bears the weathered features of a dark past.

A braided silver column lasermount. =pronouns.Possessive= fragile, chrystachrome shell shatters on impact and reconstitutes itself away from danger.

Swathing the frail frame of this waif is the habit of =pronouns.possessive= order: grey matter robes and a blindfold over =pronouns.possessive= eyes.

This androgynous figure has shorn =pronouns.reflexive= of all =pronouns.possessive= body hair. A leather jerkin, breeches, and moccasins protect =pronouns.possessive= pasty, veined flesh. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:bear:afterpronoun= one arm of flesh and one of fluted chrome, and the irises of =pronouns.possessive= eyes are achromatic.

The Mechanimists worship Qud's lifeless machines as gods. Unlike the Barathrumites, they venerate deactivated artifacts and claim to propitiate the gods with their sacrifice.

The pilgrim wears a costume of humility: simple frock, wide-brimmed hat, cerulean scarf, slouched back, and weary eyes.

This hunchback is garbed in filthy robes the color of slate. Strands of matted chin hair splay against =pronouns.possessive= chapped lips as =pronouns.subjective= =verb:examine:afterpronoun= a broken trinket.

=pronouns.Possessive= eyes are wide, =pronouns.possessive= lips quiver in rapture at the recitation of chromaic liturgies.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:march:afterpronoun= forth in the holy metal raiment of the Kasaphescence, ready to lay down =pronouns.possessive= life in the name of the Argent Fathers.

Culled from the temple paladins, the stoic visage of this sanctum warden might as well have been shaped from chrome. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:stand:afterpronoun= behind =pronouns.possessive= azure aegis in the catatonia of a singular purpose: to defend the holy Rock from interlopers.

The desert wind blows salt into =pronouns.possessive= mouth and cerulean eyes. =pronouns.Possessive= lips are cracked and the skin on =pronouns.possessive= face is raw. Nonetheless, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:steady:afterpronoun= =pronouns.reflexive= on =pronouns.possessive= aegis and =verb:peer:afterpronoun= out over the Stiltgrounds. Here, inside the Stilt, the masses are free to worship, but the sanctity of the Argent Fathers' home must be preserved.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:recite:afterpronoun= the Canticles Chromaic with reverberant gusto, gesturing emphatically with =pronouns.possessive= hands.

Swaddled in ornamental regalia =verb:stand= =pronouns.Possessive= Holiness Eschelstadt II, high priest of the Stilt and voice of Shekhinah. =pronouns.Possessive= arms gust over the splendor of the cathedral, the majesty of the Argent Fathers, and the spirit of reverence put into every work of art in their name. Eschelstadt =verb:roar= a sermon unto the nave, heaving the wind from the rafters down into the Sacred Well. Pilgrims tremble beneath the weight of =pronouns.possessive= voice and the cerulean silhouette of Shekhinah behind =pronouns.objective=.

"He who dons the chrome mantle is as one with =pronouns.possessive= Fathers." Argent trestles spill forth from =pronouns.possessive= scalp to =pronouns.possessive= waist. Years of proximity to the baetyl have blanched =pronouns.possessive= irises to a chrome hue. =pronouns.Possessive= glistening lips are parted. The priestly mantle of =pronouns.possessive= station is embroidered with a thousand stitches. In the grip of each of =pronouns.possessive= sinewy hands are chrome-plated pistols -- bequeathments of the Argent Father who inhabits the Rock.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:brandish:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= prayer rod in order to assist students in learning their verses of the Canticles Chromaic.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:croon:afterpronoun= a worshipful hymn to =pronouns.possessive= Argent Fathers and the Kasaphescence.

=pronouns.Possessive= lip sneers beneath a mustache of matted hair. =pronouns.Possessive= hand clutches the loop of a leather whip, which =pronouns.subjective= snaps at =pronouns.possessive= hounds.

Acidic drool dribbles from the jowls of this snarling mastiff.

Oiled and brushed mail hang across =pronouns.possessive= crooked spine and salient jaw. The color too was sucked out of =pronouns.possessive= irises by =pronouns.possessive= tangled lineage, and =pronouns.possessive= wet rosy lips catch the light and toss it back across a sharp sneer.

Oiled and brushed mail hang across =pronouns.possessive= crooked spine and salient jaw. The color too was sucked out of =pronouns.possessive= irises by =pronouns.possessive= tangled lineage, and =pronouns.possessive= wet rosy lips catch the light and toss it back across a sharp sneer. =pronouns.Subjective==verb:'re:afterpronoun= puffed up in emulation of =pronouns.possessive= peerage and the symbol of =pronouns.possessive= sword.

White lips hang from his hooded and overly jawed face in the asymmetry of disappointment. His brow crunches the softness out of his color-sucked eyes. He looks at his newchildren with a mixture of sharp fondness and disgust. To him, they are small puppets; their limbs must be curled around their joints with loving precision, or they are splayed open by their own wills, useless and broken.

Oiled and brushed mail hang across =pronouns.possessive= crooked spine and salient jaw. The color too was sucked out of =pronouns.possessive= irises by =pronouns.possessive= tangled lineage, and =pronouns.possessive= wet rosy lips catch the light and toss it back across a sharp sneer. =pronouns.Possessive= hands stick to the cold barrel of =pronouns.possessive= gun.

Oiled and brushed mail hang across =pronouns.possessive= crooked spine and salient jaw. The color too was sucked out of =pronouns.possessive= irises by =pronouns.possessive= tangled lineage, and =pronouns.possessive= wet rosy lips catch the light and toss it back across a sharp sneer. =pronouns.Subjective==verb:'re:afterpronoun= saddled under the weight of the Holy Rhombus.

Oiled and brushed mail hang across =pronouns.possessive= crooked spine and salient jaw. The color too was sucked out of =pronouns.possessive= irises by =pronouns.possessive= tangled lineage, and =pronouns.possessive= wet rosy lips catch the light and toss it back across a sharp sneer. =pronouns.Possessive= chest is exploded upward in emulation of =pronouns.possessive= advanced peerage.

Wet skin scintillates behind =pronouns.possessive= ears. =pronouns.Possessive= spine cambers in anticipation of its blood-fated curvature, and =pronouns.subjective= pokes out =pronouns.possessive= chin in emulation of =pronouns.possessive= elders. Sword grease stains =pronouns.possessive= hands.

Wet skin scintillates behind =pronouns.possessive= ears. =pronouns.Possessive= spine cambers in anticipation of its blood-fated curvature, and =pronouns.subjective= pokes out =pronouns.possessive= chin in emulation of =pronouns.possessive= elders. Wood polish stains =pronouns.possessive= hands, which =pronouns.subjective= =verb:struggle:afterpronoun= to keep dead still.

Radial handles circumscribe a space inverter.

=pronouns.Possessive= cloak bulges around =pronouns.possessive= waist where =pronouns.subjective= =verb:stash:afterpronoun= scrap on =pronouns.possessive= belt. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:don't:afterpronoun= look at you but two steps in front of you.

=pronouns.Possessive= hunched back is sown with tufts of white fur and needle quills. The nose at the end of =pronouns.possessive= bear-snout is dark and wet. Long, slender, triple-joined fingers sprout from =pronouns.possessive= pudgey paws and flutter with composed precision.

A huge mound of spiny, rotting flesh.

As you approach this still figure you catch sight of =pronouns.possessive= coat, sewn from frayed, varicolored patches. =pronouns.IndicativeProximal= =pronouns.personTerm= =verb:are= filthy and wild-eyed. =pronouns.Possessive= mouth twists into a delirious grin when =pronouns.subjective= =verb:notice:afterpronoun= you; judging by that aspect of glee and eagerness, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:seem:afterpronoun= to believe that =pronouns.subjective= alone =verb:are:afterpronoun= privy to some cardinal knowledge, which will surely enlighten you once =pronouns.subjective= =verb:deign:afterpronoun= to share it.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:preach:afterpronoun= the chromaic gospel of the Mechanimists. Precious saliva flies from =pronouns.possessive= cracked lips, but =pronouns.subjective==verb:'re:afterpronoun= too rapt in the music of =pronouns.possessive= words to notice.

Fine crushed herbs dust the old =pronouns.personTerm='s pestle knuckles.

Red welts dot =pronouns.possessive= skin where the soldering iron nipped it. Rings of ash stain =pronouns.possessive= apron, and =pronouns.possessive= vest pockets sprout stem-thin rods of glass, strands of wire, and metal rivets.

An old =pronouns.personTerm= with sand and soot in =pronouns.possessive= beard. Innumerable baubles and curios clutter =pronouns.possessive= workshop, shaded from the sunsear by a sheet of metal pitched upon the roof of =pronouns.possessive= hut. One of Argyve's bushy eyebrows is perpetually cocked, though whether that's owed to an insatiable curiosity or forehead mutation is unknown.

A hunched-back ancient wrapped in a black robe. =pronouns.Possessive= smile is warm. Protruding from =pronouns.possessive= back is a stalk hidden under a veil. The stalk forks into two hands with eyes in their palms, and immediately you know why men follow Irudad.

One star-ribboned night, a ray cat crossed the marshy loam and wandered into Joppa. The watervine farmers, wakened by the joyful cries of a small girl, gathered around to revel at the favorable omen and extol the generosity of the Beetle Moon. Since then, Ctesiphus =verb:have= spent =pronouns.possessive= days curled under the shade of brinestalk huts and sauntering over dirt paths. So long as =pronouns.subjective==verb:'re:afterpronoun= approached with care, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:welcome:afterpronoun= the hands of friends and strangers alike.

phosphorescent

Years of the desert have taken their toll on =pronouns.possessive= body, but =pronouns.subjective= =verb:command:afterpronoun= your ear with =pronouns.possessive= voice like few other =pluralize==pronouns.personTerm=, and you wonder what sovereignty =pronouns.subjective= might've come to were =pronouns.subjective= not born a moisture farmer.

The tatters of a sweat-stained kufiya thrash in the wind from where they hang about the farmer's neck. Clasped in =pronouns.possessive= gnarled, brown hand is a curved vinereaper of iron with which =pronouns.subjective= =verb:cull:afterpronoun= moisture-swollen wafers from the viridian plant called watervine.

The pig farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over =pronouns.possessive= eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on =pronouns.possessive= cheeks. =pronouns.Possessive= hands are caked in mud and salt.

=pronouns.IndicativeProximal= brawny, mustachioed =pronouns.personTerm= =verb:wear:afterpronoun= a white apron stained with the juice of starapples. =pronouns.Possessive= sable hair mats against the browned skin of =pronouns.possessive= forehead. From =pronouns.possessive= left forearm hangs a wet rag, with which =pronouns.subjective= =verb:scrub:afterpronoun= the dirt from =pronouns.possessive= hands every few moments.

O, she doth pale red apples by her cheek!
That cheek which doth proclaim the rite of spring,
And heretofore hath nature's grand technique,
Ne'er ripened lips so red from which to sing.
Begone, false sun! I know thee for a fraud.
Her fairest skin illuminates the day.
All gold is brass and e'ery jewel is flawed,
When set beside the sums her eyes might pay.
The Spindle, which from Omonporch ascends,
Must surely be her likeness brightly wrought,
And as a likeness, fails to apprehend,
The artless beauty that its makers sought.
Did I know love or beauty? No, for shame!
For I knew neither 'til they spoke her name.

Big Ualraig shifts =pronouns.possessive= weight between =pronouns.possessive= hind and forelegs. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:shake:afterpronoun= dander off the chipped surface of the great curling horns that splay from =pronouns.possessive= temples. One hand holds a purring blade. The other, lame and frostbitten, reminds us that while Mother Nature may bestow splendid gifts upon her children, she is still sister to Cruelty.

You gaze upon your own reflection in the lustrous chrome face of this conical orb, which emits a crackling drone and showers azure sparks upon the floor.

You gaze upon your own reflection in the lustrous chrome face of this conical orb. It emits a harmonic drone.

As strange as it seems, the mayor's hulking frame and alabaster fur identify =pronouns.objective= unmistakably as an albino ape. =pronouns.Possessive= flanks have softened and swollen, however, on account of a sedentary life unknown to =pronouns.possessive= savage brothers and sisters, and in place of contorted rage =pronouns.subjective= wears an aspect of reflective wonder. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:clothe:afterpronoun= =pronouns.reflexive= in a crude toga, a beaten, wide-brimmed hat, and a walking stick upon which =pronouns.subjective= doesn't lean but rather brandishes in a stately manner.

Beneath a mane of coarse hair, Warden Indrix's lips move without issuing forth any sound, perhaps in the formation of a litany invoked in the name of the vengeful god =pronouns.subjective= =verb:serve:afterpronoun=. The coarse hair grows in an uninterrupted mass down =pronouns.possessive= torso, that of a human but broader and more taut with muscle than any man's, disappearing only behind the sash of =pronouns.possessive= kilt. But for Mayor Nuntu and the warden =pronouns.reflexive=, no one knows the circumstances of Indrix's estrangement from =pronouns.possessive= kin, for no one dares mention it lest they draw the warden's ire. One of =pronouns.possessive= great curling horns has been cleanly cloven from =pronouns.possessive= head, however. That same horn along with several others hang from a belt slung low about Indrix's hips, giving =pronouns.objective= the distinction of being the only warrior to bear =pronouns.possessive= own appendage as a trophy.

Before you =verb:recline= =article==pronouns.personTerm= clothed in leafy raiment, so svelte and still you mistake =pronouns.objective= for the fallen branch of a sickly tree until you meet the gaze of =pronouns.possessive= cerulean eyes. Upon closer scrutiny, you discern the hilts of =pronouns.possessive= twin swords, Caslainard and Polluxus, rising through the foliage of =pronouns.possessive= cloak and over =pronouns.possessive= shoulders. =pronouns.Possessive= sylvan sashes, of which =pronouns.subjective= =verb:wear:afterpronoun= several, are strewn with the ears, claws, and horns of creatures unfamiliar to you, and as you examine them, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:scrutinize:afterpronoun= you wearing an expression that bears qualities of both a smirk and a scowl yet that is not quite either.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:seem:afterpronoun= pretty subservient.

Yurl, a sentient cucumber vine, puts =pronouns.possessive= roots down in a squat clay pot on the floor of =pronouns.possessive= hut. Myriad wares rest on oaken shelves throughout the room, and with =pronouns.possessive= tendrils Yurl =verb:exhibit= them to interested customers by crawling along an iron trellis. You notice that Yurl =verb:creep= toward products almost before you think of them; the gift of telepathy affords the sprightly vine a distinct advantage as a chandler.

=pronouns.IndicativeProximal= brown-skinned =pronouns.personTerm= =verb:wear:afterpronoun= a filthy shift and =verb:perch:afterpronoun= a basket on =pronouns.possessive= hip. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:stalk:afterpronoun= through foliage about the outskirts of the village gathering edible mushrooms and keeping an instinctive eye on the children at play.

Muddy rags, tangled hair, skin caked with dirt. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:caper:afterpronoun= about with arms flailing wildly.

A lithe, brown-skinned =pronouns.personTerm= wearing only a loincloth. Over one bare shoulder a bow is slung; over the other =pronouns.subjective= =verb:carry:afterpronoun= the pelt of some forest animal. At the sound of each breaking twig or aberrant bird call, =pronouns.possessive= body tenses and =pronouns.possessive= hand reaches for the grip of =pronouns.possessive= bow; =pronouns.subjective= =verb:poise:afterpronoun= =pronouns.reflexive= to defend =pronouns.possessive= village from those cloven-hoofed savages that would pillage it.

This nude, brown-skinned figure alternates between kneeling low before the shrine of Oboroqoru and skulking around it observantly. =pronouns.Possessive= body is black with the dirt of the earth, but =pronouns.possessive= face is uncharacteristically clean, and you notice every so often =pronouns.subjective= =verb:uncork:afterpronoun= a waterskin that hangs around =pronouns.possessive= neck, =verb:moisten:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= hands, and =verb:scrub:afterpronoun= the grime from =pronouns.possessive= cheeks and brow. Oboroqoru's worshipers deem this rite a more meaningful use of their precious freshwater than even the quenching of thirst, and in presenting unsullied faces to the idol of their ape god, they hope to propitiate him and garner his favor and protection.

This stone idol of Oboroqoru stands twenty spans tall. Its nameless sculptor chose to depict the ape god sitting cross-legged with each of his three pairs of gargantuan arms grasping each other. The idol is swathed in vines, its caretakers ceding to nature save where the herbage has threatened to obscure Oboroqoru's gentle countenance. Wreaths of flowers of every hue the forest begets -- azure, chartreuse, indigo, carnelian -- litter the base of the shrine, insignificant offerings to what appears to be a callous god.

You stand not at the foot of a wintry knoll but beneath a mountain of muscle, swathed in blanched fur, that must be nature's crowning jewel. Cast from the mold of the great apes (or perhaps the exemplar from which those apes were molded), the living god differs only in that =pronouns.subjective= =verb:bear:afterpronoun= not two but six arms, each of which might be the fleeced bole of an ancient yew. =pronouns.Possessive= fists are of proportions that suggest the might with which hoary gods beat the mountains into shape when the earth was young. However, =pronouns.possessive= aspect bears not a shred of that divine fury; =pronouns.subjective= =verb:don't:afterpronoun= rage but instead =verb:sit:afterpronoun= in contemplation of eons.

There's a saying among the vintners who hoist their sails toward the Stilt. 'One rose is fair; five is death.' Indeed, when a single shawl swathes her face and the Esthers are one, there is peace beneath the Stilt. But when she's joined by her sisters, and scarlet ribbons thrash in the desert air, there is only blood and justice.

=pronouns.Possessive= spectacles are fogged and =pronouns.possessive= hands are stained with ink.

Bees flutter around the brim of =pronouns.possessive= hat, pulled low over =pronouns.possessive= sweaty brow. =pronouns.Possessive= apron is stained with glistening drops of honey.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:knead:afterpronoun= the remnants of jams and paste against =pronouns.possessive= smock. Clipped yuckwheat stems unwittingly decorate =pronouns.possessive= grey locks. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:smell:afterpronoun= like a childhood meal.

Grape-stained teeth fill =pronouns.possessive= grinning mouth. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:sing:afterpronoun= the praises of =pronouns.possessive= family's vintage.

Sweat-stained sleeves bellow through a leather apron. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:turn:afterpronoun= an awl around =pronouns.possessive= fingers.

=pronouns.Subjective==verb:'ve:afterpronoun= woven a leather chin strap between =pronouns.possessive= fingers. Pelts of a dozen animals hang from =pronouns.possessive= shoulder.

Glove tranks are fastened to the back of =pronouns.possessive= hands with loose thread. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:bite:afterpronoun= a needle for safekeeping.

Pastes and jams of various colors smear =pronouns.possessive= apron like a painter's palette. Flour dusts =pronouns.possessive= broad, dough-kneading knuckles.

Wire, twine, and thread tangle from spools strapped to =pronouns.possessive= vest. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:sport:afterpronoun= a ruffled cloak of unknown fashion.

Tongs clip between =pronouns.possessive= soot-seared apron and the barrel of =pronouns.possessive= chest. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:clasp:afterpronoun= a swivel knife and hammer for working leather and metal.

A crushed hat brim mantles =pronouns.possessive= eyes and a leather holster rides =pronouns.possessive= shoulder. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:roll:afterpronoun= a lead slug over =pronouns.possessive= leathery knuckles.

=pronouns.Possessive= fingers are stained with soot, the devil's ink. Scars criss-cross their way up =pronouns.possessive= arms.

=pronouns.Possessive= apron is damp with the sap of a thousand trees. =pronouns.Possessive= lips are painted in watercolor. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:wring:afterpronoun= ichor from =pronouns.possessive= hair.

A telescopic monocle is affixed to =pronouns.possessive= eye, and =pronouns.subjective= =verb:squint:afterpronoun= permanently. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:twirl:afterpronoun= a delicate stone in appraisal.

Scars on =pronouns.possessive= hands indicate where the grinding wheel gluttonously sheared through stone and feasted on chips of flesh.

Spectacles rest on =pronouns.possessive= pointy nose. =pronouns.Possessive= nails are caked with graphite, and reams of graph paper are splayed across =pronouns.possessive= desks.

The crab farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over =pronouns.possessive= eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on =pronouns.possessive= cheeks. =pronouns.Possessive= hands are caked in mud and salt.

The leech farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over =pronouns.possessive= eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on =pronouns.possessive= cheeks. =pronouns.Possessive= hands are caked in mud, blood, and salt.

The cat herder slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over =pronouns.possessive= eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on =pronouns.possessive= cheeks. =pronouns.Possessive= hands are caked in mud, salt, and glittering optic-fiber dust.

The amoeba farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over =pronouns.possessive= eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on =pronouns.possessive= cheeks. =pronouns.Possessive= hands are caked in mud, slime, and salt.

The snail farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over =pronouns.possessive= eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on =pronouns.possessive= cheeks. =pronouns.Possessive= hands are caked in mud, mucus, and salt.

The goat herder slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over =pronouns.possessive= eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on =pronouns.possessive= cheeks. =pronouns.Possessive= hands are caked in mud and salt.

The beetle farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over =pronouns.possessive= eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on =pronouns.possessive= cheeks. =pronouns.Possessive= hands are caked in mud and salt.

Glorious Shekhinah, Argent Adonis and First Father, poses in luminous mummery. With the stature of the ageless stars, fixed and permanent, He appraises the temple erected in His honor and cocks His head in approval. Befitting the memory of His union with the Kasaphescence, He clothes His manifestation in cerulean shades, forsaking the viridians and russets of the lowly plants and clay earth.

Statue of god.

Nisroch the star mason is depicted here straddling the earth with his mighty legs. He dons his favorite sash, whose folds are exquisitely worked in gold.

The statue of Bel wears its tremendous weight in polished marble. He wields his epochal aegis, storied for obstructing a swirling gas cloud in the starry dawn.

Here Shekhinah has been sculpted into permanence with magnificent cerulean marble. His body is chiseled to blessed perfection. His golden diadem crowns him Father among Fathers.

Dagon the orator domineers the west apse with his brazen pose. His golden coronet shines splendidly in the fire's shine.

Carthax the athlete is depicted here mid-stride. His glistening silver hair is tied behind his head, in astral tradition, as he vaults through the firmament.

Resheph, who's called 'the Above', lifts an enigmatic finger to heal the wounds of the sick.

The polished bronze glows by the firelight.

A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller.

A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads.

Glass was blown to a wide bowl and thin stem in the tradition of the grove-carpeted mountain lagynos. Were the style's first artisans working through the thick and ripe air of the musa wood? Did Spindle glitter dust their marvers and pipes?

A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller.

Bronze was melted and cooled, shaped and etched, to deliver the water of life.

Clay was rounded and kilned to store oils and wine.

Clay was spun on the potter's wheel and shaped into waves, fired, and glazed into a traditional vessel.

Sphinx scenes of post-Edification glamour are arrayed in gold and sunken relief around the lip of the black marble fount. The tracery of its bright veins spikes the eye but, downwell, recedes into the starless depth.

A delicious starapple, covered in countless crystalline spines. Once the spines are chipped away, the inner flesh is moist and delicious.

Fracti fork at the extremities and assume a brilliant purple hue.

Thick stalk, plump cap. It provides shade to aphids of the right stature.

Ingredients: aadvark, abdomen, aborigine...

Tough, nutritious strips of barkbiter flesh.

Tough, nutritious strips of dried bear flesh.

A strip of smoked boar flesh.

Smoked strips of mashed beetle leg.

A smoked strip of croc flesh.

Smoked strips of crab meat.

Smoked strips of frog meat.

A strip of smoked goat flesh.

Dried strips of worm segment. They smell like clay and berries.

Strips of smoked scorpiock meat.

Strips of dried and smoked fish.

A knot of bark, swollen with moisture and culled from the watervine. The gift of Agraria.

Sweet starapples were mashed, set over an open flame, left out to cool, and jarred for later use. Bits of stringy pulp lay suspended in the fruity aether.

The spiny fruit of fracti were mashed, set over an open flame, left out to cool, and jarred for later use. Bits of spiny pulp lay suspended in the fruity aether.

Bunched wafers reaped from the moisture-sucking watervine plant and bound by twine.

Plucked from the dirt, they live their new lives wading in the brine.

Toadstools that were cooled and dehydrated by their own hoarfrost.

Plucked from a tree, they live their new lives wading in the brine.

Calefaction was ground in a mortar, simmered in brine, and congealed.

Salt has blanched the prism of colors out of the cuts of coiled meat, but a tinge of the smell of smoke remains.

Spooled thread cut from the dual-dimensional hearth-mesh of a phase spider.

Weeks old salt crystals line the fluted valleys of a wet stalk.

Weeks old salt crystals huddle in the stem's elbowed forks.

Air-shunting arciforms were ground in a mortar, simmered in brine, and congealed.

The scutum was scraped dry, smashed, and ground. Bits of the tick were squeezed of its magnetic lifeblood and vialed.

Shade oil was extracted from its injector, thickened in the acrid air, and bottled for culinary use.

Blaze was extracted from its injector, thickened in the acrid air, and bottled for culinary use.

Salve was extracted from its injector, thickened in the acrid air, and bottled for culinary use.

Ubernostrum was extracted from its injector, thickened in the acrid air, and bottled for culinary use.

Eaters' nectar was extracted from its injector, thickened in the acrid air, and bottled for culinary use.

Hulk honey was extracted from its injector, thickened in the acrid air, and bottled for culinary use.

Skulk was extracted from its injector, thickened in the acrid air, and bottled for culinary use.

Love was extracted from its injector, thickened in the acrid air, and bottled for culinary use.

Dried, these thick yellow-brown petals bear a closer resemblance to meat jerky than most other flowers.

Light drips off the dried lunes' boundaries of influence and seeps into the void.

Ageless bone was pulverized and compacted inside the scarred intestine of a bone worm. Then it was ground into meal.

Grave moss grew into a rare and supple clump, which was then crushed and placed on a spice tray.

Peeled lagroot tuber was mashed, salted, and jarred.

Moisture was baked out of fruit by the salt sun, but Spindle glitter still alights the disc-chip.

Memory-soaked nerves were ground in a mortar, simmered in brine, and congealed.

An artifact of the mirror world was shattered and ground to fine dust.

A plump, ripe cucumber. It's heavier than it looks.

Its spline is richly hued in ripeness, and Spindle glitter dots the peel.

A delicious taco, wrapped in thin paper.

A massive tangle of woody roots and limbs, covered in a dense scale of sharply edged bark plates.

Fruited hands climb the stalks of the grifter tree. When the light catches on the surface of the exposed corm, Spindle glitter throws it back to the widened grove.

Powder coats the skin of the spots on its colossal cap. Its stalk is trunk-like. It takes its pigment from the sap that weeps nearby.

Nature bequeathed a dandy cap atop the slender, bowed stalk. Gills pucker on its underside. It takes its pigment from the sap that weeps nearby.

A tangled nest of roots spill through the earth. The bark is splintered into pointy spines. The leaves are greasy and stinking.

A tangled nest of roots spill through the earth. The bark is splintered into pointy spines.

A particularly prickly peano patch.

Starapples hang from ashen branches, motes of luscious, red light in a bleached tableau.

Long, golden fronds unfurl when the desert wind moistens. Pieces of its bark, collated into tiny, interlocked plates, are chewed off.

A flake of witchwood bark; the inside shimmers with a silvery light, and smells faintly of myrrh.

Bright florets explode from a central disc of darker, spiraling florets. Together they're like a tiny sun.

A hut's girth of bug-gnawed bark shoots up into ethereal sky and splays into a crown of foliage.

Insects buzz in a hungry crowd around the meaty yellow-brown petals of this growing flower stalk. The plant twitches when touched; is it dreaming of a way to lash out at the creatures around it?

Very chewy.

Tiny coral petals sprout from the top of a flimsy stem. The hoof of a wildebeest, be it carbon or chrome, has crushed its siblings and spread into acidic fibers into the soil.

Children cry at the crisp snip of a yuckwheat stem, as they have for hundreds of years. They bawl, and flail, and writhe from their mothers' grasps, deaf to reassurances of the plant's medical potency. Snipped and crushed, the stem tastes acidic on their tongues and their faces contort in children's agony. But they sleep better at night, so their mothers say.

The stencil on the tin depicts an animal with claws, or are they hooves? Snoods (or horns? antlers?) pucker its nose and brow. Shaggy, knotted fur, or ruffled feathers, sheath it from the heat (or cold).

Philosophers like to distill things into their essences. When a pedagogue walks his student through a vineyard, he points to the rustling leaves, the crushed grass, the empty sky, and he asks the student what is essential about each of them. Unbeknownst to both teacher and student, tucked away in a forgotten corner of the world, such an essential berry grows.

Salt gathers in its furrows. It's knotted with moisture-swollen wafers in place of leaves.

The frayed fibers of a watervine.

Girthy pilings of fibrous salt-rot stake out these pools of brine. They belong to no one.

A nebula of leaves pulsates as the hosts of insects inside buzz and swarm.

Its roots look like a wax colonnade melted into a maze and resolidified.

The strands glisten with a frothing film.

An ancient, bronze coin with a square cut from its center. Time has furnished it with a turquoise tarnish.

A silver shekel stamped with the profile of King Haberdash.

A platinum shekel stamped with the image of the Very Old Bird.

A steel disc stamped with the profile of Barathrum the Old.

Nary a scholar knows who composes the Annals of Qud or when the chronicling began. But the Quantivists devised a way to entangle their own pages with the offical ledger, allowing them to insert themselves into the histories in a favorable light. A few such pages remain.

An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.

Sheets of flayed, stretched goatskin stuck together -- and written upon -- with kid blood.

This is a sheet of loose leaf paper with fine lines printed in orthogonal coordination. It seems to have been torn from a binder.

This sheet of brinestalk-pulp paper is covered in a shaky ink scrawl. It looks like it's been crumpled and uncrumpled many times.

This is a sheet of loose parchment rolled into a scroll and sealed with the wax mark of a maker.

Several sheets of tattered, age-stained parchment bound together at the margins by some sort of glue.

Several sheets of tattered, age-stained parchment bound together by a strand of kelp from a distant reef.

A voluminous tome whose pages are bound between two slabs of waxed wood.

A sheaf of lined, blue paper sewn together with silk thread.

A depiction of an arching, gear-driven machine has been meticulously tooled onto the cover of this chrome-tanned leather bible of the Mechanimists.

A hefty, ancient tome.

A large-print volume made of hand-pulped and pressed brinestalk paper, its cover preserved with resin.

This is a sheet of loose parchment rolled into a scroll and sealed with the wax mark of the Mechanimists.

This opaline, phosphorescent globe fits into the palm of a human hand and glows with the light of auroras absorbed eons ago.

This opaline, phosphorescent globe glows with the light of auroras absorbed eons ago. It floats about preternaturally.

A length of brinestalk wrapped in oil-sodden cloth.

A luminous mote of glowmoth dust.

An amber flame into which life is breathed through a psychic wick.

A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.

A large camel bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended with a strap of intestine.

An aluminum jug sheathed in an olive green cloth.

A phial of glass.

A phial of metaglass.

Chrome was molded into a canister and fastened with a brass mounting bracket.

Collagen was molded into a liquid vessel.

A primitive club hewn from wood.

A sturdy staff of brinestalk.

A long stick hewn from brinestalk and shaped at the top into a crook.

A knobbed bronze head atop a wooden shaft.

The iron head of this mace bears six mail-rending flanges.

A long hammer with a polished steel head.

A long hammer with a massive, polished steel head.

A knobbed steel head atop a steel shaft.

Across Moghra'yi, wood was hewn from the trunk of a boreal titan and shaved into a stick by practitioners of the foreign art. They shaped one end of the bark into an oaken knot.

A fist-sized snail shell coiled in soft spirals. It is blackened with soot and stinks of sulfur.

The hoary, bowing horn of a wizened mangoat, wind-etched and gilded with scarlet tassels.

A gnarled, acacia staff atop which is set a small orb of primordial amber.

A mallet with a hefty, carbide head.

A maul with a hefty, carbide head.

A ball-peen hammer used to forge carbide.

A massive ball-peen hammer used to forge carbide.

A large shard of dusky fullerite welded to a steel shaft.

A massive shard of dusky fullerite welded to a steel shaft.

Blast furnaces sucked the tidal energy out of the planet, heated carbon to solar temperatures, and poured it into hexagonal molds. The emerald tongs used to retrieve the casts atomized and vented vanadium -- the green glint -- into the manifold, imperfecting the metal and conferring its characteristic hue.

Blast furnaces sucked the tidal energy out of the planet, heated carbon to solar temperatures, and poured it into hexagonal molds. The emerald tongs used to retrieve the casts atomized and vented vanadium -- the green glint -- into the manifold, imperfecting the metal and conferring its characteristic hue. Casts mottled with dust particles were culled and fed to lithovores, leaving only the perfect hexagonal prisms.

Quark-gluon plasma rapidly cooled and was extinguished on the voidpeaks of the early universe, except where the globules got trapped in 6D kinks of spacetime. There they glided in the slipstream for billions of years until beings discovered them, built machines to extract and cool them, and reheat them in their stellar furnaces.

Bands of aquamarine lodestone tori wrap around the hitting part of a hefty, double-fisted truncheon. On the bottom handle there's a slot for a battery to juice the magnets.

This humongous skull of a rhinox is made of some of the hardest organic materials known to man. A massive shaft of steel has been driven through the maw and welded to the interior of the skull, producing an enormous maul.

A telescoping, slate-colored rod with a knob on the head.

A flanged rod of slate grey metal.

Ring magnets form a cylindric mace-head to bash against objects and syphon their electron juice into a battery slotted on the shaft.

A crudely constructed metal knife.

With a wavy blade, the desert kris is a common weapon of the desert men.

A short, pitted blade of iron.

A curved knife.

A short steel dagger.

A sharp, folding steel knife.

A long, thin knife of steel.

A sharp, massive steel cleaver.

A thin blade of blue-grey metal.

A splinter of finely chipped obsidian, set in a sturdy hilt.

A solid shank of metal rippling with bright blue veins.

A blade of veined, folded carbide sheathed in a leather wrist strap.

A fractured, razor sharp slab of matte black material.

A light sword meant for close combat.

A mid-sized sword made of cold blue-grey metal.

A mid-sized sword made of grey metal, shot through with livid blue veins.

A light sword made of marbled, unbreakable black metal.

A short shimmering blue blade extends from a dense black plastic hand-grip.

This wood-gripped hilt emits a thin, terse, undulous beam of pale green light, whose intensity is such that it may cut away steel.

This wood-gripped hilt emits a long and narrow beam of pale green light, whose intensity is such that it may cut away steel.

A massive metal strut torn from some ancient assemblage. A piece of tattered cloth is wrapped around the strut to serve as a handle.

A long wooden shaft, tipped in a chunk of sharpened metal.

A wooden shaft with a leather hand hold, topped with a wickedly curved metal blade.

A simple wood-cutting axe.

A long, flexible shaft topped with a wicked curved blade. Used to flay the tough watervine hides. A potentially dangerous weapon in skilled hands.

An ornate wooden shaft with a leather-wrapped handle, topped with a glistening steel blade.

A simple axe with a sharp steel head.

An ornate wooden shaft with a leather-wrapped handle, topped with a glistening steel blade. The end of the pommel hosts a glittering opal.

A thin, yet strong, crescent of grey-blue metal, bound to a strong wooden shaft.

A strong, crescent of grey-blue metal, bound to a long strong wooden shaft.

An elegant half-circle of veined grey-blue metal, bound to a strong steel shaft.

An elegant half-circle of veined grey-blue metal, bound to a long steel shaft.

A huge, sharpened wedge of fullerite, bound to a massive steel haft.

A stiff metal staff, with a spiked ball hanging from a short chain.

A length of metal chain.

A plastic handle with a retractable, weighted metal cord inside.

A colossal jackhammer.

A basic, well-worn sword.

A hulking sword, built to cleave opponents in two.

A sharp iron sword.

A sharp, polished steel sword.

A curved sword with a dull grey-blue metal blade.

A curved sword with a grey metal blade, lined with hundreds of thin, shining blue veins.

A sword with a matte black, unbreakable blade, spidered with silvery veins.

A long, humming white blade extends an arm's length from a dense black plastic hand-grip.

This large meat cleaver is exquisitely crafted from wood and tempered steel, its side filigreed with intricate leaf designs and bearing the name 'Difucila'.

This simple magazine-loaded rifle is a common hunting gun in the tribes of men.

A composite carbine with a banana-shaped magazine.

A composite carbine of exceptional craftbearship.

This sturdy bolt action rifle has a long, expertly rifled barrel.

This simple muzzle-loading musket is inaccurate, but is sometimes used by the desert tribes.

This is a sylphlike rifle of plastic the color of slate. Its barrel is composed of slim, telescoped cylinders and its grip is wider than it is long.

Three steel barrels fit together into an arc-edged triangle of luminous ritualism.

A motley cacophany of short wire loops surrounds a long metal rail. An ungainly stock and magazine are mounted to the side.

Atop this russet rifle stands a square plate-scope inset with a large ocular lens. The sight through the lens distorts as the gun tilts, but the vector drawn of the shot remains unchanged.

Cold to the touch, this sleek rifle bears a long, slender chrome barrel. Tendrils of icy vapor coil out of the muzzle.

A rifled prism that refracts and refocuses light to tunnel things toward its wielder. Sophists call it a 'here ray'.

Venous tubules and tenebricose metal intertwine, the black science of the Eaters thirsting for new and strange victims.

This is a basic single-barrel chain-loaded rifle, powered by a simple, self-winding flywheel.

A rugged 6-shot pistol, the borderlands revolver is the workhorse of the borderlands gunslingers.

The craftsmanship of this pistol worked in chrome and brass is breathtaking -- grips of kingswood wrap your palm around themselves, the hammer is contoured to your thumb with infinitesimal precision, the eye of the barrel leers at your target. Twines of withered ivy are engraved along its frame and down its barrel stained with age and blood.

A cylinder-less pistol with acrylic grips.

A handheld machine gun with a narrow barrel and an extended magazine.

The pistol is engraved with watervine hemp and encircled in saltstone. On the grip is an image of a nomad and knight in saltstone. The knight is striking down the nomad.

Several mantling amber orbs have been soldered onto the barrel jacket of this plastic pistol. Golden wires sprout from the orbs and disappear into tiny cracks in the pistol's chassis.

This basic shotgun can be deadly at very close range, but is very inaccurate at even moderate distances.

A stockless, pump-action shotgun of jet black.

A handful of pellets encased in a thick wax-paper and plastic shell.

A lump of lead.

A humming curve of metal, a dim beam of light connects the endpoints of the crescent. When fingers are drawn through the beam, a blazing arrow of energy springs from the weapon.

A handheld grenade launcher with a steel, girthy barrel.

A basic shoulder-mounted missile launcher.

A basic missile, tipped with a highly explosive warhead.

A massive energy cannon.

The barrel of this 'pistol' is a small, transparent tube. Inside it you can see a small, twirling mote of purest blackness, pulsing with entrancing beauty and menace.

A simple recurve bow made from the stiff leg-bones of a salthopper.

Some tinker has fastened wheels to the limbs of this bow. Cables work to accentuate the archer's strength, mechanically flexing the limbs further inward as the string is drawn.

Servos click on the wheeling groves and a miniature air turbine exaggerates the pull of the bowstring.

A short wooden arrow, fletched with glowcrow feathers.

A steel-headed arrow.

Reds and oranges swirl in the bulbous arrowhead. Ignition is a notch away.

A carbide-headed arrow.

An arrow with a folded carbide head.

A fullerite-headed arrow.

A crysteel-headed arrow.

An arrow with a flawless crysteel head.

A zetachrome-headed arrow.

A flame-throwing apparatus.

A hand pump slides into a chrome canister with illustrations of wilting plants etched in relief.

A hand pump slides into a chrome canister with illustrations of rotting fungi etched in relief.

A thick shell of bone and chitin, the carapace covers a majority of the body with its armor plates.

Long, slim, keratinous spikes that present a menacing facade to attackers.

A pair of massive, feathered wings.

A chitinous, segmented tail tapering into a curved barb slick with venom.

A pair of massive, curling horns. They can deliver devastating gore attacks to enemies.

Iron hooks can be fastened to residual leg limbs, providing a kind of graceless, scraping locomotion for their wearer.

Some facial appendages are so sightly, scattering light like the prismatic loam or curving toward geometric bliss. But there are many others.

Huge spade-like claws as hard as any natural substance (and many unnatural).

Ghostly, flickering flames drift up.

Ghostly mist drifts up.

The air in this area shimmers with intense heat, as if filled with an invisible fire.

A frigid, cloying mist hangs in the air.

An elaborate, flap-powered contraption of corroded bronze and parasols.

Articulated blades unfold to form an aerial screw that gets blown upward by an air thruster mounted below. On activation, the equipper takes flight.

This pair of prosthetic hands are attached to the ends of two telescoping, multi-jointed chrome rods which fasten into a thin plastic case designed to be worn on the back.

A small wooden shield meant to be strapped to the arm, leaving the hands free.

A small iron shield meant to be strapped to the arm, leaving the hands free.

A small steel shield meant to be strapped to the arm, leaving the hands free.

A large shield, meant to be secured to your hand.

A black aegis bearing the cross of the Putus Templar.

Rust stripes this ageless, flat-faced buckler. Painted on its face is the coat of arms of an archaic house -- white runic script on a field of crimson.

A frock of slate cloth.

Rough and itchy flax was coarsely threaded, cut to shape, and cinched by a hemp rope.

An ornately sewn mantle of slate cloth.

A sewn mantle of chromaic fabric ornately embroidered with a thousand stitches.

A leather lash and handle.

Tiny glyphs are inscribed on each exterior face of the handheld box.

Perch fish nursed in the aquarium silos of a vacated sector were netted and skinned into strips. Those strips were tanned with chrome and stitched into this vest.

This frock is knit from imperishable uuflax stolen from an archway garden during a union dispute between the weavers' guild and the high-strata window makers.

Wrested from the liminal tiers of a shale-toppled spire, this animal skull was handed over to an etcher for decoration.

An imperishable uuflax sheet was torn from the elephantine spools in the market and sewn into a headdress.

Masks maintained their sacred status in the lives of the Eaters, even as they lost the capacity to stitch them into their own faces. This one is no different.

An imperishable uuflax sheet was torn from the elephantine spools in the market and stitched into a talma.

Perch fish leather was worn by fishworkers in the earlier sultanate, but by the time of *sultan* it was prized by gentlefolk. This pair is exquisitely crafted.

While the steeple fires raged below, brave arconauts sank into the glowing depths to retrieve valuables. When their corpses were found, the sand in their pockets had been blown into glass beads. This bracelet was made from such beads.

Perch fish leather boots, finest make. They were either stolen from the crypt of an older Eater or fashioned by a cordwainer to look like it.

A chipped-off chunk of Spindle, magnetized by the fall to earth, orbits its chosen warden.

Far from the soaring aegides of earlier periods, this concave ward was merely bent and polished on a municipal lathe.

Chrome flakes fell like dander from broken belfries into the trash sea. They were scooped up by orefishers and traded up the silk chain. This shirt is fashioned from the flakes twisted into rings.

Early period Eaters modded their genes to grow ur-filament hair. Later, once that technology was lost, graverobbers sheared it from their cadaverous scalps. In the time of *sultan*, it was called finery. This vest was knit from the stuff.

Early Eaters had enlarged their skulls for cosmetic reasons. By the time of *sultan*, the high minaret dwellers took to wearing them as helms. This one is exquisitely decorated.

Early period Eaters modded their genes to grow ur-filament hair. Later, once that technology was lost, graverobbers sheared it from their cadaverous scalps. In the time of *sultan*, it was called finery. This hat was knit from the stuff.

This cloak was knit from strands ur-filament hair robbed from the graves of early Eaters.

When they were active, the crysteel blast furnaces belched slag into a belt of hills that cinctured the old arcology. In the age of *sultan*, the slag was mined and moulded into a glass replica of a crysteel hauberk.

A bodysuit made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to the torso.

When they were active, the crysteel blast furnaces belched slag into a belt of hills that cinctured the old arcology. In the age of *sultan*, the slag was mined and moulded into a glass replica of an crysteel miter.

A cap made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to the scalp.

A veil cut from a thin, woven fabric.

A tough leather cloak.

When they were active, the crysteel blast furnaces belched slag into a belt of hills that cinctured the old arcology. In the age of *sultan*, the slag was mined and moulded into glass replica pair of crysteel gauntlets.

These beads were skillfully dyed and strung together.

When they were active, the crysteel blast furnaces belched slag into a belt of hills that cinctured the old arcology. In the age of *sultan*, the slag was mined and moulded into a glass replica pair of crysteel sollerets.

Slippers made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to your feet.

This suit of armor is made of overlapping slabs of thin-blue metal, welded to a chain-mail undergarment.

A vest cut from an elastyne mesh and reinforced with plastic.

This stretchy, foam fabric hardens when pressure is applied to it.

Thick, banded carbide gauntlets.

A pair of leather boots onto which several carbide bands have been riveted.

This suit of armor is forged from massive slabs of black, unbreakable material.

A dark, visored helmet made of jet black fullerite.

Articulated gauntlets, made of many linked rings of fullerite.

Heavy, plated boots made of welded slabs of fullerite.

This vest of densely woven fibre -- the strands dug right up from the ancient, stinking ground -- is light and flexible, but nearly indestructible.

This is a billowing cloak of material so light as to feel totally weightless when held. Any light illuminating it scintillates into a thousand rainbow motes, dazzling the eye with its brilliance, and causing the tunic to seem to swim in midair.

A crysteel aegis.

A flawless crysteel aegis.

A pustulent girdle that slowly undulates with latent vitality.

Miniature airfoil blades spin on the circular face and blow gentle air.

A wrist-mounted display device that gives a detailed readout of the life signs of biological entities in its surroundings.

A wrist-mounted display device that gives a detailed readout on the structural integrity of simple inanimate objects in its surroundings.

A wrist-mounted force-field emitter.

A plastic band with a recessed button on a chrome faceplate.

          "You think this is the real =name=? It is."

Hieroglyphs of fluctation are incised on the inner surface of this shiny metal torus.

Visual Instrument and Sensory Augmentation (G Edition)

Data is painted back and forth between the glass lunes of visor and wristlet. Whereas the outer trim shines gold on F Edition, on this model it fades to grey.

It's worked from otherworldly limestone. The stone was quarried from a drift-world spinning about a darkling star whose weak luminescence didn't bleach the voidstuff from the rock's coral. Now it insulates its slumberer from the rays of materiality and conducts them to the psychic aether.

Plutonic metal is etched with a two-dimensional projection of the rhombic dodecahedral honeycomb, allowing it to snap onto the ley lines of the local region.

Diodes burn their cyan light through an atmosphere of glass curved around a metal link.

Witchwood twigs pared and twisted into a decorative wreath.

A comely, multicolored shawl sure to distinguish its wearer from the rest of the pack.

A soft-soled shoe worked from boar hide.

A pair of cracked leather sandals.

These beads were skillfully dyed and strung together by a hillside native.

Colorful rings.

Silver was melted and cast to a perfect sphere in isomorphic veneration of the Kasaphescence.

This filthy, beaten hat was drawn low over countless wearers' eyes.

A delver's vest covered in a dense tangle of webbing and a plethora of pockets.

This is a very fancy smiling sun mask. It smells faintly of ancient, dried grapes.

This is a highly decorative frowning moon mask. Gazing at it makes you feel somewhat sleepy.

This is a spectacularly crafted sun and moon mask. It makes you feel uneasy.

In wool paper and acrylic the pain of experience is smoothed away into the aspect of a child. Neuronal clamps peak out from the concave interior surface. The mask is fastened by a brass chain, adorned by beads of glass, and branded on the forehead with the Holy Rhombus, a sign of the price of innocence.

In wool paper and acrylic the pain of experience is smoothed away into the uniform child's cone. Arterial clamps peak out from the interior surface. The cone is fastened by a brass chain, adorned by beads of glass, and branded on the apex with the Holy Rhombus, a sign of the price of innocence.

The glass lune is showered in information across the electromagnetic channels.

A copper ring bespattered with worm blood.

Ageless dark, stained robes.

Dark, soot-stained robes.

A long, hooded cloak white-washed from years of exposure to the desert sun.

A long, twisted braid of shock-white ape hair.

A shawl woven of fine, scarlet silk.

A huge pile of stinking, lice-infested animal hide.

This simple tunic is woven of stiff plant fiber. It's surprisingly comfortable.

This airy robe is woven from fine cloth.

A kilt woven of thick plaid wool.

This toga is fashioned of crude, roughly woven textile.

This toga has been well-used, as togas are wont to be.

Boar hide was brined, limed, and put in a tanning drum. It was cut and fitted into an apron, and now it's a brown canvas for knife scars and tong burns.

This well-worn set of overalls are made from sturdy cloth, and covered in small pockets.

This suit of armor is made of thick overlapping slabs of rock-hard bark, sewn to a coarse, itchy plant-fiber undergarment. It smells pretty good.

This suit of leather armor has been cured until it is rock hard.

Swaddled in green growth, its wearer becomes another country-cloaked and time-eaten statue.

This suit of hard leather armor is covered in metal studs.

A utilitarian leather skullcap.

A close-fitting hood, woven of crimson fabric.

A slender cut of brass painted and intricately worked into the shape of a poisonous serpent.

Hard leather gloves worn by the moisture farmers of Joppa to protect their hands from the briary watervine fronds.

A sturdy set of leather gloves.

A well-worn pair of leather boots.

A hideous, plated skull with gaping beak.

This suit of armor is made of dozens of thick rings of metal, which have been sewn into a padded leather undershirt.

A protective shirt of tiny, interlocked metal links.

A decorative clay pot.

A pair of metal boots, with thick magnetic soles.

A cloak made of dark fabric, which hangs with supernatural heavyness even in a strong wind.

A salt-spangled crimson banner of the Issachari nomad people.

Air circulates and the sheet-standard breathes; the edges of the red diamond shrink and lengthen. Blood courses through the arteries of time and into the tissue of the new flesh.

A veil cut from a thin, flame-retardant fabric woven by the Issachari nomad tribes.

Thick, banded steel gauntlets.

A pearl fastens these well-crafted sandals. The natives believe they belonged to the nymphs who inhabit the river beneath Red Rock.

A mote of gentle light darts about.

A brass compass fastened to a leather wristband.

A large, moss-colored pack equipped with shoulder straps and a hip belt.

This vest is cut from the chitinous exoskeleton molted by Qud's jungle puma; thick, flexible rings the color of tree bark protect the torso of its wearer.

A swath of verdant forest loam.

These skin-tight gloves occasionally jolt the hands into performing with added strength and dexterity.

Metal frames are mounted on treads to protect against wheel-cramming detritus.

A pair of boarskin gloves trimmed with the alabaster fur of an albino ape.

Gloves made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to your hands.

A pair of gloves, made of chain-mail.

A pair of boots, made of chain-mail sewn over thick leather backing.

A pair of leather boots onto which several steel bands have been riveted.

The hollowed-out, xanthous shell of the electric snail armors the head while only minorly impairing vision.

The moss-strewn antlers of some great elk appear to have grown from atop this ageless, leather helm.

A conical helm of polished steel.

A leather hat with ear flaps lined with the alabaster fur of an albino ape.

A cloak cut from the furry, alabaster hide of an albino ape.

A square, black cap with a gold tassel.

A heavy coif of densely interlinked chain-mail.

This suit of armor is made of many large plates of forged metal over a layer of chain-mail. The whole mass is stiched to an under-garment of leather and padding.

A leather strap with an affixed lamp.

A pair of oddly shaped goggles.

A sturdy helmet, with built in illumination.

A piece of thick burlap, impregnated with vinewood sap, helping to protect against noxious gas and vapor.

A durable mask of plastic, fitted with a simple filter that provides good protection against dangerous gas and vapor.

Curved glass caps the narrowest in a series of concentric brass tubes. The widest one is fitted with a leather head-strap.

Vision-correcting lenses on thin wire frames.

Chrome-brass rings and swarths of leather are precisely cut from a tinker's stencil, but the real signature is on the glass: a scatter of speck-sized fractures from the high salt gales.

Light flecks break themselves on the silver moat and rush back to their place of origin. The signifier becomes the signified; the simulacrum is realized.

A convex, translucent lens the size of a man's torso and suspended in thin air.

A starless, triangular prism of black glass.

Bees crawl over the back-mounted slatted rack. A few more dart around nearby.

Gridlines and a red dot are painted on the glass lune, and simple rectangles depict the once-ordered streets of chromium that've since burst like gnarled roots through space and time.

Some clever tinker has fitted a spring-loaded tendon around each of these boots to mimic the gait of a large, sprinting bird.

 As long as you have worn this item for at least 100 rounds, you sprint at thrice your movement speed.

An old ropeworking ritual was used to weave a back-worn net of fibrous and supportive straps.

A pair of leather boots onto which several steel bands have been riveted. Grease has been applied to their soles.

This skin-tight flesh suit is made of elastic rubber.

A knitted sleeve that warms as you wear it.

A cloak of unrippable synthetic fabric.

The fine, decorated cloak of a Ibulian Praetorian.

This suit is made of extremely durable, rubbery, dark material. It is lined with small pouches which slowly filter water that the suit collects from your sweaty, overworked body.

A helmet, camouflaged for the deep jungles.

A coat of several frayed, varicolored patches stitched together.

A densely camouflaged leather jerkin.

The teleprojector is a fluted visor of fused tungsten filament. Two antennae coil out of the temples.

This suit of armor is made of overlapping slabs of dense, durable plastic which have been bound to an under-layer of leather.

Animated birds flap and shift over the cloak's folds and ruffles. A myriad of species, sizes and colors.

This suit of armor is made of hundreds of small chips of fullerite, bound to a hard leather cuirass.

The finned and wheeled boot had become the sigil of several sects of socionauts by the Late Sultanate. For decades their progenitors careened through the capsule pipelines of the slouching arcology, dismantling it plate by plate, pursued by the constabulary but ferried by their skates to the safety of their moss-skirted hideouts. The metaphor was writ large on the glass guts of the city: Scorch the past. Rocket into the future.

Prism-studded skin was shorn from a dead monkey and sawed into a hat.

Prism-studded skin was shorn from a dead monkey and sawed into a cloak.

Prism-studded skin was shorn from a dead monkey and sawed into a pair of gloves.

It's a robotic eye lidded by a furcate chassis and embellished with antenna lashes. A minuscule barrel pokes out from its pupil and vibrates. The inner lid is articulated, allowing the drone to scan for incoming projectiles and shoot them down with laser light.

It's a robotic half-eye lidded by a furcate chassis and embellished with antenna lashes. A minuscule barrel pokes out from its pupil and vibrates. The inner lid is articulated, allowing the drone to scan for incoming projectiles and shoot them down.

A different glyph for 'life' is etched into each shining chrome segment of the wristband.

Slate tubes assembled to scaffold the human form.

Calligraphs are incised in uneven rows and columns that meander across the quarter and back stay of the boot. Their character mass appears to orbit a central statement: "The path is contracted." The rest of the script is etched in a variety of signs and styles that offer competing and composite interpretations of the cryptic proclamation.

Ur-metal strips on the soles are magnetized by bosonic coils, producing a continuous ribbon of negative-mass bubbles that repel the wearer upward.

A lightweight cap of shiny foil.

A colossal, clenched fist gilded with the blood of a demigod.

An array of tinkering utensils clang against tin: tweezers, a tiny hammer, pliers, inverted pliers, glass marbles, and three wrenches.

An array of tinkering utensils clang against carbide: voltmeter, polyjack, soldering knife, ion shield, circuitboard, and three spare vacuum tubes.

Its head is a shard of fullerite, pointed on one end and flat on the other. Its handle is a pole of fiberglass and metal wrapped in fraying wood.

A toboggan repels above the ground and gently rocks on an ethereal wave. It's encircled by a corona of wafting dust.

Tiny glyphs are inscribed on each exterior face of the handheld box. Though contrarians still puzzle over their meaning, most of Qud's prominent linguist cults have converged on a single interpretation: 'For When Both Nature and Architects Have Failed You'. One brass pull ring separates you from the promise of those words.

What sort of giant manthing carried a forty-stone chrome satchel on their shoulder? The answer is not known. But a clue is stenciled on the side of the satchel: a drill pointing downward into a well.

Ink is jetted into and under the skin canvas by a needle and rotary motor.

Ornately carved wood conceals a chrome interior. An inscription speaks to the Holy Rhombus, the blood of the Reclaimed, and the honor of digital servitude.

Spurred on by their aspiration for a fully autonomous, climate-controlled banana grove, Research and Development at Hegemonic Fruit devised the neuro animator, which knits a nervous system into the inorganic material of inanimate objects. Originally, full sentience was their product diffentiator, but within months cheaper alternates like Spray-a-Brain came to dominate the market.

"SPRAY-A-BRAIN: If these walls could talk..."

A small crystalline disk with a recessed button on top.

A heavy metal sphere, which hums quietly.

A plastic disk that shines with rainbow light.

A stamped plastic disk whose scratches shine with rainbow light.

A stamped plastic disk that shines with rainbow light.

"Surgeon Hegemon's Warning: Do Not Use on Human Hearts"

Some tinker devised the spray bottle to dispense a liquid concoction that would have otherwise glued the skin of his hands together.

A pink liquid gel eerily kneads the side of a glass tube. It hungers for freedom.

A chalky white pellet with the letters "HH" inscribed in tiny script.

A roll of gauze, suited to staunch bleeding.

A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream.

A small crossbow with a wide barrel to hold darts.

A slender crystalline disk containing blueprints.

A small piece of scrap.

A small, strange little metal trinket.

A small box of wax crayons.

Odd metal tubes.

Fronds are splayed out in a waxy imitation of life. It looks hard and greasy up close, but as you back away its edges burn into softness and it performs the tree function.

This figurine worked from *material* intricately depicts *creature.a**creature*:


A small, uneven nugget of copper.

A small, shining nugget of pure silver.

A tiny, gleaming chunk of pure gold.

A tiny gemstone.

The shadows of tiny nebulae are crushed into the contours of a small stone.

A thousand sunrays are refracted through the prism of a small stone.

The black bellows of the earth are etched into red polish.

It spent millions of years tucked into the folds of earthly sediment. Then it was cracked from its cocoon, a brilliant butterfly.

Oceans reflecting the skies of a thousand fractal worlds are tucked into a geometric volume.

Impurities in the stone mother verdant things, the pattern of life repeated on a smaller scale.

It hurled through the void impacted in a black rock and slammed, shining and free, on our world.

A length of copper wire.

When unobstructed, this copper sphere accelerates toward ceiling and sky.

A cube that seems to have only four corners. Strange hieroglyphics cover each side alongside of crude scenes of a figure using a club to strike down a horned figure holding a time-piece of ancient make.

Here lies the metallic husk of a defunct waydroid. It's been stripped of its valuables: copper wire, LED lights, and chrome bearings. It beeps and whirs no longer.

Here lies a waydroid in unknowing slumber. Might a willing tinker give it life again?

A small metallic block, this is the most common energy cell seen in the wastes.

Spinning the stannic cuboid about any of its axes of rotation generates a pinch of resistance. A wrist strap and gyroscopic frame enable the cell to absorb and store its wearer's kinetic energy.

A shimmering silver cube, this cell will slowly recharge if left in sunlight.

The small size of this cube belies its massive heft. It can power an artifact for much longer than a standard chem cell.

This jet black wafer hums quietly, and seems to quiver with potential energy.

Inside the insulated cask of the battery, the electromotive apparatus cracks the energy out of acid and converts it to electrical charge.

Inside the insulated cask of the battery, the electromotive apparatus cracks the energy out of oil and converts it to electrical charge.

Inside the insulated cask of the battery, the electromotive apparatus cracks the energy out of lava and converts it to electrical charge.

Inside the insulated cask of the battery, the electromotive apparatus cracks the energy out of blood and converts it to electrical charge.

A gorgeous, filament fractal.

The filament from which this web is spun shimmers as it phases through the several dimensions of physical space.

A pool of liquid.

Follow that yonder brocade.

The surface of this sphere is a window to another place, wrought in frosted-glass facets that seethe, almost imperceptably, in the corners of your vision.

An archway.

A simple portal.

Metal is shaped to the arched doorway, and a slide panel is cut into its center.

A simple, broad portal.

Six crossed brinestalk pickets are attached to the fence by an iron latch.

A sturdy walkway made of smooth bricks.

Brick rectangles tesselate the path.

Metal rectangles tesselate the path.

Marble rectangles tesselate the path.

Black marble rectangles tesselate the path.

A bridge made of dried brinestalk.

The wide, grated platform has largely escaped the tarnishing touch of time.

A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots.

Steel was anointed with liquid chrome, cooled, and beaten into a flat and workable surface.

Wood was salvaged from moist groves, shaved into planks, and carried to the freeholds on the Shale Bridge. There it was received by carpenters who, acclimated to the wetless air, eagerly took the rich wood for their own projects.

A sharp rectangle seems to have been balanced on a metal pole over a smaller rectangle, forming a steady working surface. No welding scars are visible.

It's scratched on top where a pestle splintered the wood.

Decorated with painted mandalas and shaped by the geometric hand, the table honors symmetry and numerology.

Wood was precisely cut into drawers and set on brass rails to house clothes.

Dwellers in the earth-clefts fashion tables in the style of puzzle boxes. Their drawers house the stenographic imagination.

This metal box is equipped to deploy a bewildering array of mechanisms in butchering meat and preserving foodstuffs.

Juice is transferred to battery cells through the inductive pad on this metal table so long as it is powered.

Shelves, pads, slates, and cradles are worked from metal like a chrome honeycomb. Electrical power gets concentrated into battery-juice and served into its docked cells.

Metal was braided into electromagnetic scaffolding, and through it the modulator molds the clay of the baseband and divulges the shape of the new signal.

Bits of tiny matter are smashed together behind the lune of a chrome cylinder, and the heat is used to pump electricity downgrid.

This metal stand has an array of power outlets as well as a set of heavy-duty conduit sockets, making it able to connect corded electrical appliances to a power grid.

Copper, aluminum, and glass fiber were rounded into an electrical conduit.

Copper, carbon, and glass fiber were rounded into a robust electrical conduit.

Metal was forged into a machine artery.

Plastic was moulded into a machine artery.

Glass was blown into a machine artery.

Wood was shaved, cut to smooth-volumed shafts, and fit inside gearboxes to convey motion in continuity.

An assemblage of metal shafts and gearboxes.

Bits of tiny matter are smashed together behind the lune of a chrome cylinder, and the heat is used to suck water into pipes for dispersal.

A square metal frame with a powerful crushing hydraulic piston in the middle.

A massive, stationary metal installation with hydraulic connectors and heavy-duty power conduits.

Magnetized steel drives a diaphragm upward and life water is propelled through glass pipes to thirsty plants.

A wooden construction using four fabric sails mounted on a tower to drive the motion of a central shaft.

Wood paddles black with wet-rot catch the force of the babbling brook and set the wheel to the slow motion of centuries.

Circles of limestone, porous and oyster-gray with the shells of old things, are arranged in vertical slabs and turned against each other to grind fibrous grains into flours.

A simple wooden chair of homely make.

Planks of wood are nailed together at right angles in the style of the marsh dwellers.

Stuffed with watervine chaff and glowcrow feathers, this buttoned pillow lets folk repose with crossed legs.

Convivia in the limen, the boundary between sun-baked Moghra'yi and the shade of the Spindle, involves the mulling of cider, holography, and the arrangement of klinai at right angles.

Planks of wood are nailed together simply to form the austere seat.

Nothing is in situ, everything is in motion, and the seated must prepare for the next moment where the memory of leisure is burned in neurotic effigy. The stool abides these truths.

Jointed wood and knit watervine make a movable wharf for the ass.

The ornamentation of etched metal and precious stones designate the axis mundi.

Kneaded under the salt sun by a leatherworker and stuffed with glowcrow feathers for the repose of its owner.

Plastic white as salt bleach was contoured for ideal digestion and harmony of the humors.

It's fitted with a crankshaft that turns a dimpled rubber sheet and kneads kinks out the hindparts of its sitter.

Tight-fitted black mesh straightens the spine. Wheels descend from casters and locomote.

Plastic white as salt bleach was contoured to the posture for ideal rumination.

Historians of leisure divide all epochs into the following three ages: the span before ursine creatures evolve or civilizations rise to admire them, the span between ursine prominence and a civilization's capacity to fashion divans in their likeness, and thence the span until the civilization's fall.

In its new context the peptic chair menaces. Dried blood paints the plastic seat. Its catheters fray like a knot of worms.

Hidden micro-reactors smash together particles, generate heat, and power the biotic machine apparatus that restores life to the wounded recliner.

Plastic smoothed on a heat lathe was kneaded into a design that evokes an Eater's intuition for how a perfect ball warps spacetime around itself.

A wood-framed bed.

Fabrics were stuffed with watervine chaff and laid across wooden slats in the style of the hillfolk.

Wood slats are megaliths to a child. Feather pillows are cold meadows. Here are the boundaries of their dusk-world.

Watervine canvas is stretched and folded over wood legs.

Brinestraw was braided into a rope lattice saddle for slinging between two old oaks and napping. The fibers on the middle-sag are extra frayed from the center-mass strain of a reclining ass.

Wood was meticulously turned into columns and ornamentally whittled. Quilted downs were bartered from the seamstresses on the banks of the River Svy, layered as a cake and frosted with pillows. Here the moneyed slumberer finds a favored ingress to the dreaming dale.

Plastic white as salt bleach was contoured for peaceful slumber, convalescence, and realignment of the humours.

Wooden slats are laid on right angles in the style of the hillfolk. In place of a chaff cushion, however, lies a plastic mattress pumped with unctuous water, an alternative favored by raft-floaters who pine for the waves of the lake.

Hidden micro-reactors smash together particles, generate heat, and power the biotic machine apparatus that rejuvenates the weary slumberer.

Rust-caked spines line the interior of an iron sarcophagus. Dissatisfied with the caliber of earthly punishments, its deviser sought to deprave even the restful slumber of eternity.

Tetraxenonoglass walls and convalesscent gel recreate the conditions of the amnion where reptile, bird, and mammal embryos are nurtured to whole life.

Stoneware catches the tiny bit of moisture surrendered by the bone-dry air.

Stone was carved and shaped into a rough dome with square, even-spaced windows to let air flow. The small difference in temperature inside the dome causes dew to condense from air and accumulate in a catch basin below.

Heat from the salt sun evaporates brackish water. When the water condenses again, it's separated into its pure and impure elements: salt gloms on the still, while freshwater collects in the basin.

Chrome flanges maximize the surface area for evaporated air to re-settle as distilled dew.

A crystal waterpipe with several smoking stems.

Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the thick clay oven, and with it comes the smell of scrumptious food.

Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the thick clay oven, and with it comes the smell of hot starapple jam and toasted matz.

Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the round mud oven, and with it comes the smell of mulled cider and brined mushrooms.

Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the round clay oven, and with it comes the smell of steamed goat and sweet bananas.

Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the round bone oven, and with it comes the smell of leavened pastry, sweet bananas, and warm skulk.

Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the bright stone oven, and with it comes the smell of hot spine fruit jam and roasted tail.

Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the thick clay oven, and with it comes the smell of lah broth and steamed matz.

Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the dark electric oven, and with it comes the smell of bitter yuckwheat and boiled plasma.

A basket woven from marsh reed.

A chewed and scratched cage of wire.

Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths.

This statue worked from *material* intricately depicts *creature.a**creature*:

A simple chest made from dried brinestalk.

Teeth, shell, and bones were blackened into stasis by the earthy gunk.

A wooden locker made from dried brinestalk.

The remains of a locker chewed and eaten by corrosion.

A smooth blue plastic pod marked with a red cross.

A metal locker that looks worn with age.

A simple wooden desk made of dried brinestalk.

A sleekly designed metal desk that looks worn with age.

A wall of rock.

Solid, well-packed dirt.

Irregular volumes of stone are heaped together. Across its surface, points of order poke sporadically through the pile of entropy: a statue's finger, the gnomon of a sundial, a parcel of circuitboard.

Scattered debris.

A wall of thickly-thatched, woody jungle vines.

Here are several stripped trunks of sallow brinestalk bonded with mud.

Burnt clay ingots are laid crosswise, and a barrier is made. Each brick is marred by the variegated cuts of time, imperfections in the heat balance of the oven it was fired in, and fungi in its birthing mud.

Time and chance -- the two hands of nature -- have woven roots, stems, and leaves into a fibrous dam.

A holographic representation of a wall of crumbling shale.

A wall of dense, flecked basalt.

A wall of tarnished metal.

Snails and coral were crushed on the geologic press, painted into ribbons of impurity, and polished along the ideal plane.

Clay and quartz were dried and smashed into the red rock that's been quarried by hillfolk for thousands after thousands of years.

Rock is eroded to sand, sand is blown into lakes, lakes are buried in mud, and mud crushes sand to rock. Earth is rearranged.

Invertebrate life was sucked of its tissue and bled still over millions of years. The glaucous rock is a necropolis.

Lacustrine ecosystems, cast in lime-rich mud, put their million-year-old affairs on display in chalk-white shine.

Carmine clouds assume their crystal habit: cubes nested inside and out. Why does Moghra'yi conceal this form from the sun?

Burnt crystal gold tosses its geometric shadows onto the floors of a million watery grottos.

Black stone stands in monument to the cities of snails that perished under clay and rotted into pyrite.

Reefs were the arcologies of the young oceans. Now they are turquoise crypts, their surfaces bitten by acid water into rough wounds.

Stony eggs are incubated in pearly planar sheets. No larvae ever hatch; they're abraded into dust.

Unnamed to the beings of the surface world are the birthing atria of the subterrane, where ultramafic rock is wetted in amniotic fluid and birthed as a world-serpent.

Volcanic dust pupated in its deep-earth cocoon and cracked free as grey stone. Sophists theorize it's the color of pure aether.

Cyan bursts through a glassy hull and looks as though the sky was crystallized into a thicket of hexagonal prisms. The Eaters dug it up from its magmatic birthsite and arranged it into mounds to enshrine the Spindle.

Dappled crystal mosaics of red and cyan are the metamorphic remnants of crumbling world-plates. The new earth struggles to be born.

World-voids in the nethermost reaches of the planet are partitioned by numinous masonry. There is meaning in the patterns of its faint white filigree, but it's discerned by no one.

A wall of crumbling shale with agate deposits.

A wall of crumbling shale with topaz deposits.

A wall of crumbling shale with jasper deposits.

A wall of crumbling shale with amethyst deposits.

A wall of crumbling shale with sapphire deposits.

A wall of crumbling shale with emerald deposits.

A wall of meteorite with peridot deposits.

A small, but heavy, stone.

Wax, secreted by plants and cooled into a block.

A wall of solid granite.

Braids of fibrous plant veins enmesh compacted mud and weep a brackish blood.

Fluted columns of prism glass scatter the sight of becoming into a thousand fractured vistas.

A holographic representation of a wall of smoothed marble.

A solid block of sturdy concrete.

An empty and unadorned crypt.

Smooth cerulean marble looks like holographic light annealed into solid rock. It's edged and cornered with gold.

A low wall of solid sandstone.

Potential is polarized into a cyanic hex mesh and keyed to its arranger. Objects of sufficient mass are blocked, but small ones fired leeward can pass through.

Potential is polarized into a scarlet hex mesh and keyed to its arranger. Objects are blocked unless they are molecularly whitelisted.

A shimmering wall of distorted space-time.

Islands of carbon gravel populate an ocean of bitumen and rise from the horizontal plane toward the emptiness of the air-rasp. Time and pressure have laid hair-line trenches along the basin.

Black islands of carbon gravel populate an ocean of bitumen and rise from the horizontal plane toward the emptiness of the air-rasp. Time and pressure have laid hair-line trenches along the basin.

The cracks in the wall are fossils of the compressed foamcrete's hexagonal expansion pattern.

A wall of chrome tarnished with a turquoise patina.

This is the tanned hide of a pig stretched over two poles of brinestalk.

Baptism by sky-fire has given the wood of this once-great tree the strength of ages and a glossy black sheen.

Several sharpened trunks of sallow brinestalk were driven into the ground here.

Two brinestalk trunks are wedged apart here. The gap isn't wide enough to squeeze through.

A canvas wall.

A wooden fence.

A row of iron palings.

Old stone worked to waist height to stop spilling but not seeing.

A fence of brinestalk pales.

This is an exquisitely detailed high relief cut from precious cerulean marble. It depicts the Sacred Joining, as recounted by Shekhinah the Father to the temple high priests. In the early dawn of our universe, the Argent Fathers roamed the timeless aether with inert hearts. There, in the coldest distance of space, they discovered beauty-and-chrome incarnate, the Kasaphescence. Together they wrought machines from Her naked womb to inhabit a hundred earths. In the scene here, the Fathers first approach Her Radiance. They are led by Shekhinah, who occupies a position of prominence.

This is a high relief cut with exquisite detail from rare, cerulean marble. It depicts the Edification, as chanted in the Canticles Chromaic. After the Sacred Joining, the Argent Fathers molded the plasmatic metal of the Kasaphescence into edifices fit for inhabitance by mortal folk. They wrought spires onto mountains and arches over rivers. Here, Shekhinah oversees the construction, gazing east upon His new, gleaming world.

Wooden and chrome poles let weapons rest peacefully.

Wooden and chrome poles let guns rest peacefully.

Wooden and chrome poles let armor rest peacefully.

A mass of giant mushroom flesh.

Matter was crushed, burned, and granulated into a soft powder.

Ions spun into a euhedral disc on a spinning wheel crystallizer. Aquamarine smoothed into a wheel by deepsea steam vents.

A small axe, balanced for throwing.

Flax was mowed from the Bowl of Iris, stripped into fibers, and weaved into a soft grid by the fisherfolk of the Pale Sea.

A piece of rock, older than every book.

A sizable piece of rock, older than every symbol.

A huge piece of rock, older than every idea.

A brightly burning campfire.

A brightly burning torch in a sconce.

An empty torchpost.

A brightly lit sconce.

Sharp points of chrome are the vertices of this utilitarian light fixture. Brightness bursts from its edges and lights the world.

Sharp points of chrome are the vertices of this utilitarian light fixture. Full-spectrum brightness bursts from its edges and lights the world.

Wax weeps from the stubborn candles, drips onto the sconces, forms a waxfall through the tiers of bronze.

The ashen remnants of an old campfire.

A pile of debris.

An etched and painted terracotta sign.

Sand was crush-fired and molded into lucent panes.

Sand was crush-fired, pigmented, and molded into smokey panes.

Cerulean light from inside the Spindle channel glimmers across the pane like stars on a galactic disc or diodes on a circuitboard. The light breathes godliness into the glass.

A pane of transparent glass.

Interlinked plates of wafery carbide tessellate into a subcutaneous sheet.

Pillowy fiberglass scales tense around a supporting axis. Once installed, they'll unwind and inflate under the skin.

A minuscule graphene array that processes optical data against a repository of organic lifeforms.

A minuscule graphene array that processes optical data against a repository of robotic lifeforms and artifacts.

The emitted frequencies of your tiniest bits are synchronized with the standardized band for force emission.

Nerve-packed retina scatters incoming radiation and bends light so the irises turn jade.

Banded ropes of hydrogel are bundled into one.

Nerve bundles so arranged to stimulate muscles in the arm along a parabolic slide rule.

Carnal instructions dictate the reformation of the face's bone structure and plump tissue mass into a soft and angelic countenance. Through such thaumaturgy, the people of hoary Ibul, cradled in the breast of a collapsed ice shelf, wander its lamplighted streets in rosy-cheeked disinterest.

The diaphanous dermis throws the circulatory, muscular, and nervous networks into silhouetted relief.

Chrome clasps fasten arm joints to emulate the stillness of unlife.

Neuronically charged tissue sheaths transmit the will faster than what cell biology had achieved.

Blue carbide merely dents where weak collagen would be smashed to bits.

Skeletal hand of cobalt blue metal remains suspended in temporary lifelessness.

Black fullerite merely dents where weak collagen would be smashed to bits.

Skeletal hand of jet black metal remains suspended in temporary lifelessness.

The quartet of knee joint extensors gain the assistance of a synthetic fifth.

The new flesh is as ghost film, cloaking none of the machinery of life.

A whole new pair of hands fabricated from graphene and neutrafoam. Their pylons await engagement.

A whole new arm fabricated from graphene and neutrafoam. Its pylon awaits engagement.

Neutrafoam ropes are banded and bundled into a fluted column.

Instructions dictate the reformation of the face into a countenance that arouses latent desires in its onlookers.

The microscopic cartridge synthesizes dopamine at a rapid rate and floods the neural pathways in motivational bliss.

An apparatus-in-chromium that pumps blood in smooth waves rather than the frantic beating of carcass-grown muscle tissue.

For ages they dreamed, 'the hands must grow'. In the soft luster of a laboratory, the dream was realized.

Between the multipronged sticktool and cipherbox, one can interface with all available robotic ports.

Fluted keys for every wavelength along every spectrum permit entrance through every portal.

Three catheters imprint the skin from underneath.

Pillowy neutrofoam scales tense around a supporting axis. Once installed, they'll unwind and inflate under the skin.

Triangular treads swathe the teeth of giant gears that turn to locomote. Their human has escaped the confines of bipedal motion.

Nanoscopic stents inflate the gossamer brain-threads that restrict the conduction of the will.

The metabolic rhythms of the Holy City's denizens are synchronized to their diurnal rituals: during the day, repose in prayer beneath the shade of a fluted ziggurat; during the night, prowl the toxic arboreta for sacrifices.

Small distortions in the electromagnetic field caused by machine folk are visible to this sensor.

The flux inside this milliscopic cask can fold space on just a large enough scale to shunt a human chassis nearby.

Near the Fuming God Sea, where seawater crashes into sunrock and erupts into mephitic vapor, a labyrinth of volcanic grottos form a dimensionless space where the utility of sight wanes. For the children of the deep, new senses wax in its stead.

Meticulously detailed modeling software and instructions for facial reformation allow the host to assume the visage of choice, forever obsoleting masks.

The back-mounted gun rack of polished chrome has two slots for pistols to sit over each shoulder or for a single rifle to sit over the shoulder of choice.

Encoded on this chip are the neural patterns of a particular skill.

Encoded on this chip are the neural patterns of a particular skill tree.

Encoded on this chip are the schematics for a whole class of low-tier artifacts.

Encoded on this chip are the schematics for a whole class of mid-tier artifacts.

Encoded on this chip are the schematics for a whole class of high-tier artifacts.

Carbide mounting rods scaffold a gyroscopic shelf designed for extra baggage.

Digestive bile and aklaline churn in glass chambers, while synthetic tissue sieves out bio-toxins.

Compressed gas drives piston rods into musculature powdered with graphite dust and sends the jumper soaring.

Carbide plates are molded to skull shape and alloyed with foam that inflates on impact.

The flux inside this milliscopic cask can fold space on just a large enough scale to shunt a human chassis nearby. Nonlinear circuitry calculates all possible outcomes and discards those that land the host outside the target area.

Paracausal circuitry excites the structure of spacetime into a normotropic particulate.

Inverted tops balance the microstructure of a control unit housed in a bionic disk. Inside, the phases of reality are overlayed and projected outward.

Picophase transceiver arrays assemble an exquisitely detailed model of one's surroundings.

Geosocial location data is painted across the glass lune and is underlaid with representations of the living loam that has shifted over earth to take its place.

A contoured, plasteel body-plate absorbs impact shock and disintegrates into the bloodstream.

A dozen armatures and manipulators splay out from a metal brace that fuses to the metacarpals.

A geospatial core is fitted with a bionic tether.

A microturbine skims hemopower off the circulation of blood and the chemical reactions therein.

Heat-activated gel is stored in a bionic capsule and dispensed through subcutaneous rubber hoses.

Spikes tipped with crysteel are sutured to the skeleton and shoot through the skin and ground when tensed.

Stents and pneumatic applicators are hardwired to an intelligent control unit that dictates the injection of protean dyes into the veins.

Ionic dust dissolved from palladium facilitates the transfer of computing current.

Beneath the glass arch of this enclosure there is a standing rectangle of neutrofoam with the imprint of a human form. Across the foam at eye level, glyphs dance on a diaphonous screen. Surgical machinery, obscured by blinding light, reposes above.

Chrome pegs form a lattice where bionic modules await coupling.

Chrome pegs form a lattice where modules await coupling.

Erosion has smoothed its features into abstraction, but once it stood in monument to the coupling of machine and folk.

Features erupt from a stone canvas and shatter into a figure from the deep past. Hair, skin, brow, thigh: the details hatch a new emotion inside you, the sense of the strange-familiar. As you move about the petrified likeness, you wonder at how this Eater managed to incise themself into your spacetime braid.

A tiny wedge of plastic.

An ancient wall, with an assortment of sinister looking nodules protruding from it.

Wisps of steam coil out of several vertical vents cut from the tarnished chrome.

Wisps of noxious fumes coil out of several vertical vents cut from the tarnished chrome.

Sparks fly from several vertical vents cut from the tarnished chrome.

Tiny scratches cover the metal strips that rest between several horizontal vents cut from the tarnished chrome.

Normality condensate tesselates the vertical vents cut from tarnished chrome.

Long dead and blown into particulate by billows of Golden Dawn, dead moss sticks to the chrome vents.

Long dead and eroded into particulate by magenta showers, dead moldstuff sticks to the chrome vents.

A plate of chrome inscribed with glyphs.

A chrome pillar incrusted with a sheet of frost.

This metal plate bears a pair of buttons.

This metal plate bears a single button.

Splinters of brinestalk burn red inside this ancient piped hearth of stone.

This is a crude anvil made from a smoothed block of stone.

A weighty ingot of bronze.

Inside the glass and steel chassis, a sea of force fluid churns in turbulence. It's then pulverized into solid matter by the dynamo and projected into space as a field.

Out of a gold-plated box, kaleidoscopic tiles and tones harmonize over several dimensions.

Diamond manifolds pressurize quartz into its ê form, crystallizing spacetime along the ley lines in the local region. Drops of normality condensate on the flue refract light into an inner dimension.

Grease drips from an engine of bright chrome and stains the idlers. Pulley wheels are positioned at odd angles to churn flat rubber belts through space.

Putrid dross sticks to the grooves of flat black di-rubber.

Bone-grey ash sticks to the grooves of flat black di-rubber.

A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card.

A massive metal door fused shut.

A paper-thin access card, which will open some doors in the depths of Qud.

An unadorned bronze key.

An unadorned silver key.

An unadorned gold key.

A scratched and age-pitted metal surface broken only by a heavy, forbidding lock.

An upward-leading staircase.

A downward-leading staircase.

An unadorned chrome key.

A gleaming chrome access card.

A wide, dark shaft whose chrome walls are coated with stinking, viscous scum. You hear splashing and the drone of conveyor belts below.

Darkness floods up from the empty space.

Open air

Water

Spores dance in eddies across kaleidoscopic fungal bonnets. Rivers of primordial soup, cast in the light of lava, gurgle a quickening melody.

Svy urges over the salt-capped peaks and spills into the vine-braided loam. Her banks are shaded by the chrome carcasses of giants.

The Spindle scintillates in watery effigy on her surface. She ferries crushed granite through a mountain pass and into her leafy firth.

The umbrage of the boughs wrings the warmth from Opal's waters and leave behind a shady pool.

Yonth breaks the massif to the strange East and ushers its nameless waters into Qud. Fish-things feed on her basalt chips.

Old alps opened in the ageless past fill with a cool brine.

The ivory sea's dunes are like waves frozen in place. There are cracks in the salt from where the earth, blistered by the jeweled sun, contracted and broke. The horizon melts the sky together with the vast plain of Moghra'yi, the Great Salt Desert.

Prismatic filament colonizes the cracks between the salted rot. There are meadows here, She says.

Braids of roots and ribbons of fronds dimensionalize the flat loam. Something's home a discarded leaf makes.

A cratered wasteland.

Blips in the wave graph of stone over time.

In the wave graph of stone over time, where the world plates once vexed themselves into war, a quiet peace has settled.

Ants in the viridian chaff, the farmers sap the last drops of pristine moisture out of the salt-spangled earth.

Long ago the rivers themselves were ravenous, and they feasted on shale and limestone before taking bloated respite in the Great Salt Sea. Now the fissure-wounds have rotted to crimson and salt.

In stagnant pools, luminous lilies compete with the ribbon of stars in the night sky. Under the salt sun, though, they shrink into the shade of brine weed.

The grove's million laced fingers sway in gentle opulence. Verdant fronds nestle the base of the Spindle from its mountainous nook.

Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them.

Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness.

Red qudzu vines take as their trellises chrome wells bored into the earth.

Shrouded in the rotting jungle are the mouths of the rust-caves of Golgotha, chrome's graveyard.

Eons-shifted stone entombs the angleless architecture of Bethsaida's lair.

Rubble encases this abandoned mine where ancient tribes siphoned the black blood for their own inscrutable purposes.

Spanning the sky rusts a metal archway under which passed the chrome gargantuans canonized in the elder canticles.

Stone asserts its importance by orienting toward the firmament, whence the oldest wisdom stirs.

The bellies of vessels are sacred, for they both carry the waters of life and project the fluid past onto the convex present.

Etched into this mead hall for small, winged friends are stories they cannot understand.

A narrative is confined to the etched boundaries of this stone, to the reductive duality of its form.

Glyphs inscribed into the ancient stone are refracted into the present.

Moss-stuff inserts itself into the story-world evoked into being by the carved rock.

From the hands of a metalworker rods and strips erupted and cooled into shape.

Reverence was paid to the orb, smoothed toward ideality and hoisted on brass legs.

Village bot

Flickering interference patterns of light form a moire-cascading tableau.

This is the village crier.

This simple arm brace is crafted from boiled boar leather and tied on with braided lace. The strips of protective hide are designed to redirect glancing blows to the arm and protect poor archers from their own errant bowstrings.

Lah's pungent yellow-brown petals look the part of a traditional aromatic ingredient, but the savory flavor they impart is much closer to broth than tisane.

The hindren is substantially less majestic when reduced to a pile of dead tissue.

Here are several stripped trunks of sallow brinestalk bonded with mud and strewn with flower petals.

This patch of furry skin is painted with dried blood.

There's dried blood in the salted furrows of this patch of watervine.

These shards of splintered wood once formed the haft of a weapon, which must have been broken in combat.

This waterskin is filled to the brim and sealed with wax, as if from a merchant's stores.

Copper was crushed into a nugget and picked from its natural deposit. It's bisected by a scratch.

Only a great saltback could leave a print the size of a hot spring.

This rot-black lump of stringy flesh could have been someone's diseased tongue.

The chaff of the yuckwheat stem tastes even worse than the stem itself, and it has no medicinal value, so it's no wonder someone threw it away.

Upset guts were turned outward and exposed to rot in the stale air.

Leather scraps were cut from a wider swath for some unknown leatherworking project.

The leather bracer frays where it was ripped open.

This crude hammer is the kind used to strike rivet sets and punches when leatherworking.

Gooey analeptic residue still coats the glass tube.

Dried blood paints the tip and shaft of the wooden arrow, but its colorful fletching remains pristine.

Tally marks on the bottom of the chest's lid account for its contents: dried lah petals, vinewafers, and waterskins.

This leather bracer is striated with streaks of dried body-salt, the marks of heavy use.

Gouge, spoon, punch, chisel, blade, and shear. These tools were made by a masterful crafter for the art of leatherworking.

This weapon of war seems a strange fit for an agrarian people such as the hindren, but if nothing else it serves to illustrate that even prey animals cannot be lightly considered. The air swims around the axe's triangular head like summer heat, but it can kill even faster than the high salt sun.

Somewhere between battle axe and vinereaper, the icy ancestral tool called Yal represents the eternal struggle between the industriousness of the hindren people and the cruelty of harsh winters. The biting cold of its curved blade is as sharp as its honed carbide edge.

What was once merely a carbide axe is now a work of art. Curling wires wind around the haft of the weapon as the creeping vine of a rose, modules and battery housing mounted on the flat of its blade where otherwise the rose's blossoming head would rest.

The boartooth beads on this ancient charm have been worn down by the years, but the flexible cable that holds them together is as strong as the day it was made. Dangling from the bracelet is a figurine of a deer crafted in exquisite detail from a mysterious substance that's smooth as glass but hard as steel.

Abandoned in a tucked-away hut on Bey Lah's outskirts, this enormous statue of hornsfel languishes under a layer of withered vegetation. It depicts a majestic deer with one hoof raised from the ground, its humanlike eyes judging its surroundings and finding them wanting. The metal plaque on the base of the statue hasn't fared well over the centuries, and the only glyphs you can make out are 'K', 'R', 'S', and 'H'.

Four deer legs paw nervously at the ground while human hands clutch the haft of a vinereaper. This creature's expressive face and muscular torso show a clear human lineage, but the thick fur over dappled flanks, the flickering, pointed ears, and the majestic antlers atop =pronouns.possessive= head tell a different story.

The faundren, children of the hindren people, frolic and play alongside their adult counterparts, the carriage of their lean, sinewy bodies a stark contrast from the tense musculature of their parents and guardians. Where adult hindren are fearful and careful, faundren stare at the new and unusual with a curious wonder unrivaled.

Anxiety personified, the hindren scout =verb:stand= tense and poised, long ears flickering. As with =pronouns.possessive= nervous tension, the muscular tone and alertness of the scout is even more heightened than those of the hindren farmers. Seeking predators and intruders, =pronouns.possessive= eyes dart hither and yon.

The proud stance of this hindren and the fire in =pronouns.possessive= eyes immediately set =pronouns.possessive= apart from =pronouns.possessive= cervidian kinfolk. Those sharp green eyes peer out over the white-flecked reddish fur of =pronouns.possessive= cheeks, and =pronouns.possessive= split philtrum is the only deviation from the meticulously neutral straight lines of =pronouns.possessive= lips. Save for the leather bracers on =pronouns.possessive= arms, nothing =pronouns.subjective= =verb:wear:afterpronoun= or =verb:wield:afterpronoun= is of hindren make: not the long folded carbide blade in one hand, nor the emerald light-dagger in the other, not the scaly boots on all four feet, nor the chain hauberk draped over =pronouns.possessive= chest.

This lanky hindren's thin frame seems even thinner, wrapped as it is in elastyne and wilting in an unassuming hunch. Still, =pronouns.possessive= bright emerald eyes take in =pronouns.possessive= surroundings with more insight than anxiety, and =pronouns.possessive= fingers flicker a complex rhythm in the air as =pronouns.subjective= =verb:stand:afterpronoun= idle. =pronouns.Possessive= lightly-furred face moves little, even as =pronouns.subjective= speaks.

=pronouns.Subjective==verb:'re:afterpronoun= so small as to appear to be faundren, but a closer inspection reveals that =pronouns.indicativeProximal= hindren =verb:are= a fully-grown runt, tense like a coiled spring but with a furtive gaze far more calculating than one expects from a child. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:wear:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= hair in a pair of buns tied as tight as =pronouns.possessive= nerves, and a leather apron wraps close over =pronouns.possessive= torso. =pronouns.Possessive= little hands, curled and twitching, are covered with the burns and cuts that mark =pronouns.possessive= as an amateur tinker.

It is not merely the icy vapor trails from =pronouns.indicativeProximal= hindren's hands that make =pronouns.possessive= stand out, nor is it =pronouns.possessive= fierce eyebrows or dark, shoulder-length hair, =pronouns.possessive= open arms or foreign-made tunic. Most striking about =pronouns.indicativeProximal= hindren trader is the fact that =pronouns.subjective= =verb:direct:afterpronoun= a friendly smile at everyone, even an intruding outsider.

All lithe muscle and attentive vigilance, Neelahind =verb:become= =pronouns.possessive= occupation as the warden of Bey Lah. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:wear:afterpronoun= an adapted suit of plate armor, its faulds draping over =pronouns.possessive= strong flanks. But =pronouns.possessive= brown eyes betray another truth: inside the body of this stout warrior hides an anxious and fearful faundren.

Though time has wizened and weakened the elder of Bey Lah, still =pronouns.possessive= gaze and voice are as strong as any hindren in the hidden village. Stronger, in truth, for =pronouns.substantivePossessive= is the final word on any matter pertaining to =pronouns.possessive= people. In the name of tradition =pronouns.subjective= =verb:are:afterpronoun= Hindriarch; on the lips of =pronouns.possessive= children =pronouns.subjective= is Grand-Doe. To all the villagers of Bey Lah, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:are:afterpronoun= law.

I met a cadre of mopango folk
who told me tales of an ancient oak
who stood and ruled for a century.
She towered tall over those below
She cast shade down so they wouldn't grow
but they all believed it was meant to be.

But when hot sky-fire broke tradition
She found herself in no position
To draw up any new decree.

-- Willow Shakesprig's 'Macoun', Act V, scene iii

Muscle and hide, a face fixed in an unthinking glare and a weapon upon =pronouns.possessive= hip. =pronouns.Possessive= face-fur aligns itself along the edges of =pronouns.possessive= square-jawed scowl. You might feel guilty for thinking =pronouns.indicativeProximal= hindren a rank thug, were =pronouns.subjective= not so clearly enamored of the role.

Here stands a slight figure in a tailored vest, wire-rimmed lenses propped in front of curious blue eyes. Like all the other faundren, =pronouns.indicativeProximal= =pronouns.immaturePersonTerm= on the cusp of =pronouns.personTerm=hood =verb:exude:afterpronoun= a powerful curiosity. Unlike the other faundren, =pronouns.possessive= curiosity is tempered by poise and honed to a dagger's point by discipline. =pronouns.Possessive= brilliance is wasted here.

There is little more to this being than a bundle of spindly limbs, patchy pale-green fur, and bone-white skin. The severely mutated deerkin surveys =pronouns.possessive= surroundings with languid eyes; one of Qud's most delicate creatures living unconcerned among the saltworn and toughened.

=pronouns.IndicativeProximal= severe hindren =pronouns.personTerm= =verb:wear:afterpronoun= a spotless white tabard with long tails tailored to drape across =pronouns.possessive= long back. An array of obscure gadgets dangle in saddlebags strapped to =pronouns.possessive= dappled flanks. Most surprising is the bluish-white crust that grows across =pronouns.possessive= face, making =pronouns.possessive= gimlet stare all the more striking.

A small crack leads down into the earth.

Wispy fronds undulate from this anemic plant, whose bulbly stem is already budding.

A simple sole and straps of leather inlaid with a shining emerald.

This blade is bowed and black as the desert night. The hilt is inscribed with gold, calligraphic glyphs.

Two shining chrome and platinum rocket-shaped cylinders straddle a metal grill. Atop each is a conical copper cap, and from the bottom of each streams a brilliant, fiery flume.

 You may activate this item to enter a dashing state.
 While dashing, whenever you move in a direction, you dash toward the nearest enemy or obstacle and perform an attack.
 For every three spaces you dash, you gain a +2 bonus to hit and a +2 penetration bonus to attacks you make.
 If you do not encounter an enemy or obstacle after twenty squares, you stop dashing.

 Duration: 10 rounds
 Cooldown: 100 rounds

Saad Amus, called the Sky-Bear, whose princely bearing, fibrous physique, and pale complexion grant the impression that =pronouns.subjective= =verb:were:afterpronoun= chiseled from some celestial stone of alabaster, =verb:cast= =pronouns.possessive= furious gaze on the world.

This colossal mound of dimpled, gray flesh tapers at the head into a sloping, thrice-horned snout pocked with the scars of bestial rage.

"Let the manes put off their terror, let them put off their aqueous bodies with fire.
      Let them draw together the bones of the metal.
      Selvaggia, Guiscarda, Mandetta,
      Rain flakes of gold on the water
      Azure and  flaking silver of water,
      Pallor of silver, pale lustre of Latona,
      By these, from the malevolence of the dew
      Guard this alembic.
      Elain, Tireis, Allodetta
      Quiet this metal."
      -Ezra Pound

A scorched wooden table with a phial rack and alembic.

A bundled roll of wool.

A wool smock blotched with soot.

In high relief, folds and knots of sandy hued shapes crown the sapphire surface of the spherical model. The juxtaposition of scales, the proportion of sea to land, and the collective wisdom harnessed to devise such a thing make your head spin.

Brass gears, balls, and rings turn in precise mimicry of worlds and stars.

Barathrum's invention records time to the momentary tick by regulating its advance with a crown wheel. On learning of its utility, the water barons commissioned the assembly of dozens more in order to take precise measurements of their reservoirs at set moments of the day.

Q Girl replaced the old oscillator on this Barathrum clock with a swing pendulum. Now the several hours per day that Time cheats from its observers are reduced to mere minutes.

During the enterprise of invention, you sometimes require the use of a shapeless gray foam. Or, at the very least, you might require it one day, and so some tinker prudently got ahead of the problem and invented the brass foaminator. Inscribed on the base: 'All the foam, none of the sadness at maybe one day needing foam and not having it'.

Four flanged couplings form a cross with a wavegraph readout at the center. As liquids and gases pipe through, flux readings appear in neon strings.

Two copper bulbs form a spark gap that facilitates current along a path of ionized gas. The thing snaps and sparks at you.

Inside a metal chassis, amber glyphs ride the scanlines painted by a cathode ray. Frustum keys are arranged in quiet rows.

Magnetized innards digest electrical signals and belch out the waveform, while a diaphragm breaths dust onto a brass grill.

Gas is pushed through a hose and ignited into flame. Dew gives texture to the hose barbs.

Glass lunes refract light and paint images in fictive angular size.

Painted crenulations wrap around the equator of this metal vase.

Magnetic tape is spooled around a wheel and fed to a drive head that scribes and scries, stamping data out of the third dimension then quickening it back in.

Across a field of brass and chrome diodes blink in gyres.

Scanlines paint the lune in cathode amber.

Springfoam keys push back against fingers in the course of flirtatious coupling between machine and folk.

Set into an ancient rust-stained metal box are a speaker and an anonymous button.

Sine waves breaking on the glass lune encode the behavioral primitives of the enclave's mechanical children. The electron field sucks them through the antenna and into the aether.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:stand:afterpronoun= with tremendous import and stillness, as if upon some hidden but vital vertex of the enclave.

In Barathrum's name, =pronouns.subjective==verb:'ve:afterpronoun= conferred onto =pronouns.reflexive= the tonsure of stewardship and shorn the hair from =pronouns.possessive= scalp. =pronouns.Possessive= snout narrows in proportion to the tight corridors around =pronouns.objective=. =pronouns.Possessive= robe is impeccably clean. Waydroids beep and whir at =pronouns.objective= obediently as they scuffle past.

=pronouns.Subjective==verb:'re:afterpronoun= an opal in the monochrome.

=pronouns.Possessive= hair is a quasar of red ochre and indigo in the blanched light of the workshop. =pronouns.Possessive= cartilage is pierced by polyhedral rings that spin in antinomy to the cave's simple geometry. Beneath the quills =pronouns.possessive= skin is decorated in furcate lines, fantastic elaborations on the patterns of discarded circuitboards. =pronouns.Subjective==verb:'re:afterpronoun= surrounded by apparatuses of =pronouns.possessive= own creation. Through the harmony of those machines, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:cut= a swath through the entropic brine that sizzles around =pronouns.objective= in a loudening chorus.

Thousands of alabaster bristles sprout every which way from the braided frame of the eldest urshiib in Qud. Leaning on a walking staff with long, winding grooves for =pronouns.possessive= serpentine fingers, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:stare:afterpronoun= at nothing with pale red eyes like dying suns.

A machine wrought from some primordial black metal into the likeness of a man, Rodanis Y =verb:tower= over the halls of Grit Gate.

This urshiib has particularly long and slender fingers even beyond the likes of those of =pronouns.possessive= kin. Littering =pronouns.possessive= workshop are all sorts of implements of battle, from shoulder-mounted cannons to needle-pointed vibroblades. =pronouns.Subjective= turns =pronouns.possessive= focus upon you as you approach, and that focus coalesces to your mouth when you speak.

=pronouns.Possessive= face is small and shorn of all fur, and a gleaming silver rondure adorns =pronouns.possessive= right ear. All =pronouns.possessive= quills are trimmed to impeccable precision.

This big urshiib =verb:attend= to innumerable pots, pans, and other instruments of culinary craft, =pronouns.possessive= eyes fixed only on these projects and little else. Intensity radiates from =pronouns.possessive= body as the mixed scents of food science waft from =pronouns.possessive= carefully-trimmed fur.

Streaks of grey head-hair and crunched skin around =pronouns.possessive= eyes point to Hortensa's right-sitting point on life's timeline, but =pronouns.possessive= frame remains straight, =pronouns.possessive= hands remain dexterous, and =pronouns.possessive= muscles are full of figure and responsive. =pronouns.Possessive= bearing is sharp and unsoftened with age; =pronouns.possessive= lips are pursed in the tension of rational thought. But =pronouns.subjective= is comfortable; =pronouns.possessive= movements are unrushed. There are hints of joy and warmth in =pronouns.possessive= face; they shine through the dense layers of tissue grown out of careful routine.

=pronouns.Possessive= body may be underground, but Iseppa's mind travels with the stars. Most of =pronouns.possessive= body is so still as to be a statue, but =pronouns.possessive= hands blur, mechanically sorting fasteners and screws with no conscious thought but remarkable efficiency. =pronouns.Possessive= eyelids rest low in weary contemplation of impossible questions.

=pronouns.Possessive= face is tender, clean, and dotted with tiny furs. =pronouns.Possessive= head-hair is gelatinized and shaped into a sharp rectangle. =pronouns.Possessive= eyes are light and wide. Weird clothes hang about =pronouns.possessive= narrow frame, and =pronouns.possessive= fingers fidget in patterned asynchronicity. Occasionally =pronouns.subjective= beam a grin and freeze =pronouns.possessive= motion before resuming as if nothing happened.

Mafeo's bristling mane contorts in such a way that in the faint light =pronouns.subjective= almost looks to be grinning. Fastened to several of =pronouns.possessive= quills are tiny bells meant to draw the attention of prospective customers.

This Barathrumite moves with deliberate care, tending to the metal denizens and fixtures that keep Grit Gate running. =pronouns.Possessive= white fur and quills are shot through with gray streaks of eld, but there is a younger softness about =pronouns.possessive= eyes, particularly when a chromeling catches =pronouns.possessive= attention. Your face, however, =pronouns.possessive= gaze avoids.

Frozen in chrome is the delphic countenance of the Tungsten King, whose casted likeness was made to perfect specification.

Hard chrome was cast in the mold of soft cheeks and rounded brow; the patron king of scholarship is canonized.

Euclid twines lovingly around a witchwood stake. A noggin of =pronouns.possessive= knotted tendrils pursues things that move around the study. Remembering everything =pronouns.subjective= =verb:hear:afterpronoun=, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:flick:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= leaves against =pronouns.reflexive= to form words and chat with passersby.

The hallowed ground upon which the Spindle, a lengthless needle of Maya blue, meets the earth from where it pierces the firmament.

Through the prismatic umbrage fly the archways and buttresses of the monuments above the catacombs of the Eaters of earth.

Patinae have transformed the cyclopean bronze doors into great shelves of seafoam and coral. Lyrical death is depicted on the panels in high relief: chained cables lift inverted pyramids through a calcified village, gaseous fire, and vaults of brine. Skeleton harpists traipse across the freize, and goats chew copper bones on the cornices.

Patinae have transformed the cyclopean bronze doors into great shelves of seafoam and coral. The theatre of life is depicted on the panels in high relief: palm leaves lift pyramids into the star-ribboned sky, and water pours over the lip of an oinochoe. Lovers yoke across the freize, and goats chew copper cud on the cornices.

Nothing fills the dark and vast channel where a lift was once pulled through space on a cabled tether.

Possessed of the enterprising spirit that stirred in Hegelrut ages ago, Asphodel (called the Lovely) recently flitted toward the Spindle with xyr asphodelytes in tow and crowned xemself Earl of Omonporch. There xe reposes in the musa grove, under the Great Shade, unfurling xyr petals into perfect contours and holding court.

Beautiful, contoured petals wrap into a florid bowl. Its filament crackles in the stale air. A bit of dirt sputters from where its pseudopodal roots sift through the loam.

Folds of coarse-weave physician's cloth hang off =pronouns.possessive= lissome frame like a gunslinger's shawl, and the crinkled brim of an old hat blots the sun and starlight.

sultan_wall

Gigantic, old stone was stacked, knapped, and carved in long arcs to the style of the day in the time of *Sultan1Name*. Since then, the project has accrued collaborators, and their signatures are writ everywhere: here, the lacuna of a vandal's edit; there, the soft strokes of time's brush.

Gigantic, old stone was stacked, knapped, and carved in long arcs to the style of the day in the time of *Sultan2Name*. Since then, the project has accrued collaborators, and their signatures are writ everywhere: here, the lacuna of a vandal's edit; there, the soft strokes of time's brush.

Gigantic, old stone was stacked, knapped, and carved in long arcs to the style of the day in the time of *Sultan3Name*. Since then, the project has accrued collaborators, and their signatures are writ everywhere: here, the lacuna of a vandal's edit; there, the soft strokes of time's brush.

Gigantic, old stone was stacked, knapped, and carved in long arcs to the style of the day in the time of *Sultan4Name*. Since then, the project has accrued collaborators, and their signatures are writ everywhere: here, the lacuna of a vandal's edit; there, the soft strokes of time's brush.

Gigantic, old stone was stacked, knapped, and carved in long arcs to the style of the day in the time of *Sultan5Name*. Since then, the project has accrued collaborators, and their signatures are writ everywhere: here, the lacuna of a vandal's edit; there, the soft strokes of time's brush.

Gigantic, old stone was stacked, knapped, and carved in long arcs to the style of the day in the time of Resheph. Since then, the project has accrued collaborators, and their signatures are writ everywhere: here, the lacuna of a vandal's edit; there, the soft strokes of time's brush.

Precious stone was dragged from the reaches of the dreaming earth, stacked in cyclopean designs, and carved to the splendor of a thousand blooming florets. Moistureless air preserves the gilding, but time has softed its edges.

Drapery flows are frozen in marble around a rondure in high relief. The gilded walls of imperium are baroque, but they're still more modest than the gilding of the earlier sultans.

Bright tracery charts a life time of meaning through the black marble void of the door's surface. A family name is inscribed on a memorial plaque.

Stone quarried from the early earth binds the art of a life.

Stone quarried from the early earth divides the art of a life.

Black marble quarried from the early earth binds the art of a life.

Black marble quarried from the early earth divides the art of a life.

Black marble was rasped into a vaulted canvas of emptiness, and then left, inspiring wonder at what could have been.

Bone-shapes of the human form are disarranged to tessellate properly. Round skulls require ulna knots to fill the gaps in their sequences. The boundaries of this world are rice-white and filled with presence.

Vacuum tubes slice through circuit topography like rivers on a fold belt. Hot gas heaves through and suffuses its brass and silicone acres in a red glow.

Mirrored chrome spangles gather in waves and break on the seams of the dead-sitter colossus's electroplated chassis. Loose sequins, like free radicals, are sent tumbling by time and earth-pull.

It's achromous and brittle; it crunches under the foot. How it clusters into mats must conform to the shape of life-wet body-banks it once flowered from, and with dark red blood will again.

Bleached cyan grave moss has grown into a rare and supple clump.

A carpet of spent and damp sporophytes dither in glutted ecstasy on the calcified trellis. They sucked blood from the life-wet beings around them and grew the scaffolding bone, whose superior extremity terminates in a monstrous beak.

Scarred fingers with moss-crudded nails clench a pigskin satchel bilging with implements of dead digging. A sable hood and cloak swathe a nimble body pitched on a crooked spine; =pronouns.subjective= =verb:are:afterpronoun= used to bowing toward the ground.

Sharp points of chrome are the vertices of this ornamental light fixture. Brightness bursts from its edges and ignites the world.

A brass hem surrounds a foam shunting pad, and the above-head fretwork is braided into the once-familiar glyphs of exit symbology.

Collagen bubbles swaddle its hundred segments and compacted bone matter squirms out of its tail end.

Ageless bone was pulverized and compacted inside the scarred intestine of a bone worm.

Geometry is stressed under the gelatin alp, which erupts from the smooth planes of its surroundings in disgusting triumph of size. Its k membranous faces, once taut by the pressurization of symmetry, now follow a sagging curve toward the wet core, and through the blurry placentae shines a museum of historical objects from across the numbered ages. Are those the bones of a pig? Is that a bronze bell? Inside the bright-slick sac, earth-remnants from across time are joined to one space, and k-Goninon sloshes in hunger.

Wisps of steam coil out of several vertical vents cut from the sooty chrome.

Cyclopean blades shaped to the airfoil are housed inside a metallic ring nicked with the scars of time. In the distant past, someone directed the course of air at grand scales.

Under a tarnished metal frame hangs a sheet of black rubber cut into pliable curtain strips.

Metal slates partition the chrome carton into golden rectangles. Inside, artifacts await their planned abrasion and return to mineral form.

Whole worlds are carved in bas relief, simulacra of the motley lives of ash-dreaming Eaters. Palm leaves lift pyramids into the star-ribboned sky, and the water of life pours over the lip of an oinochoe.

Metalfoam is packed and plated into a colossal simulacrum of the bio-arm, where the heads of the biceps and triceps brachii gleam. Colossal joints chirr at the effort of rotation.

Metalfoam is packed and plated into a colossal simulacrum of the bio-arm, where the heads of the biceps and triceps brachii gleam. Brass pinchers snap the kinesis out of their target.

Wispy ur-filament wings painted red by oxygen beat the stale air 300 times per second. They lift a thorax bundled out of metallurgic sinew and narrowing to a segmented abdomen capped by a fine-motion pincer claw.

Spin belts whirr in gentle tones as the chromaic cask wanders. =pronouns.Possessive= rasped-flat top acts as a steady surface for vessels, and folded into its body-barrel are instruments of inurnment: broom, shovel, and duster.

Geometric shapes of meaning tessellate the ringed rows around the crematory vessel: stars, triquetrae, nonagons, and lunes.

Light glints off the tiny scratches torn into the vast tube's chrome surface from where metal smashed bone into grated submission.

Whole worlds are threaded in three-dimensional filigree, simulacra of the motley lives of ash-dreaming Eaters. Palm leaves lift pyramids into the star-ribboned sky, and the water of life pours over the lip of an oinochoe.

Black marble was quarried from the vast reaches of the underearth and chiseled into a stone blanket for the dead.

Cirrus clouds of neon stir inside a glass lune and beam light through the prefigured likeness of the sultan. A bleary shape thus hovers supine above the starless and gigantic black rock divan. The artist may have intended this to evoke a lightning storm over a dark plain or a lily on the pitch of a river: something to represent the bright and gaseous mind roaming over the inert body.

In a dusty corner of the past, nameless workers glazed striated marble and inlaid it with gold to house the heirlooms and grave goods of a slump-shouldered Eater.

Cyclopean marble slates enclose an interdiction prism for imperial treasures, including the creatural and sovereign Face. Across their vast surfaces, goldwork plots the geometric sequences of life and its boundaries; water spills down the bodies of world-caryatides and curls back to the welkin.

Plumpness in the cusion is gauged to the seated thinker, lancet arches press into the playful back, and claw-and-ball feet suggest a hidden life within the piece itself. This is a chair laden with meaning.

Guild furniture makers, conspiring in a bright workroom beneath the Eaters' sun, stretched a cushion to the precise size of two ardent lovers and set a pleasing mail diamond at its right angle. The claw-and-ball feet suggest movement.

Etched chromium on the lavish legs tapers to claw-and-ball feet, and on the marble surface, geometric imperfections were rasped off and flung into an iron bucket that may still exist somewhere. Eaters spoke here, and planned.

Slink-green plant lobes splay out of the ancient cauldron with chromium incision. They live and breathe like their loam-bound cousins, but their bio-data was spliced with the amaranthine seed. They do not die even as the Eaters about them decompose.

To ritualize the passage to Brightsheol or another thin place, several ornaments were interred: coin, manikin, locket, and pipe.

Burnt light erupts on the chromium plate and shatters into a figure from the deep past. Hair, skin, brow, thigh: the features hatch a new emotion inside you, the sense of the strange-familiar. As you move about, the figure moves in parallax; you wonder at how this Eater managed to incise themself into your spacetime braid.

Hued and life-wet beauty was gathered in twine to make a point. Now dead stems and petals desperately grasp each other.

A monstrous, unlidded eye is perched on three spider-thin legs. Its lens is a lune of hot tetraxenonoglass, its iris a supernova of gallium circuitry. All the honey-thick light that pours through the void of its pupil is pumped up the arterial turnpike, drank by the optic nerve, and dripped like dye into the grayscale field of its dreaming brain.

Dead light refracts through the rainwater and off its kaleidoscope scales. Color is attenuated, and all that's left is a white-fin kelpie.

Ghost-canes are twirled to pictorial stillness, and moisture gathers on their buds.

Shining jewels are scattered across the contours of a galactic visage, and edges drawn between them sketch the outline of a sashed Fool. Far away at the chrome crest, beads of bright and searing light suggest the shape of a medial ewer, and beyond its spout, a vast and timeful structure. The inside of the mask is ribboned with burnt tracery from where it was molded on a gallium lathe, then dyed with the milked irises of shedim and set to dry in a pool of warm static.

Burning rubies, carnelians, and garnets are arranged as a warm and giving sun. Diminutive rocky orbs pass by in the near space of the visage, and in the far space a prism of freight lengthens into a wider void. The inside of the mask is ribboned with burnt tracery from where it was molded on a gallium lathe, then dyed with the milked irises of shedim and set to dry in a pool of warm static.

On the countenance, ribbons of alabaster cloud circumscribe a lapis sea and forests of jade. At the median of it all, a Spindle pierces the outer rondure and disappears beyond the composition. The inside of the mask is ribboned with burnt tracery from where it was molded on a gallium lathe, then dyed with the milked irises of shedim and set to dry in a pool of warm static.

Jasper rocks break on the edges of the mask and hem in a pale sea of milky quartz. The Spindle bisects the wide Face, and symmetry blooms beneath it. The inside of the mask is ribboned with burnt tracery from where it was molded on a gallium lathe, then dyed with the milked irises of shedim and set to dry in a pool of warm static.

A single mount of inlaid basalt and malachite splays open; an image of the Spindle blossoms from its center and dominates the festooned aspect. The inside of the mask is ribboned with burnt tracery from where it was molded on a gallium lathe, then dyed with the milked irises of shedim and set to dry in a pool of warm static.

A bowed lune is cracked from where it was smashed off the gallium lathe. The shedim had no eyes left to color the dim and final Face, and it lay too long discarded in a pool of warm static. The sultanate is broken.

Chrome bunches in cloth-like furrows across a metal tunic that drapes across =pronouns.possessive= lanky, anxious, pinion-limbs. A large metal cask -- =pronouns.possessive= head -- sits atop =pronouns.possessive= too-frail undercarriage, and a gleaming glass eye shines at you in several shades of tinted light. =pronouns.Subjective= seem on the verge of apologizing.

Damp clothes of the shomerim habit, a hoiche, a tallit, and a robe, drape over air as if they swathe a person's figure. Rain drops from another world patter on the bosks of ribboned thread, transforming from tense spheres of selfhood to diffuse moisture on the fibrous loam. Old life is absorbed by the ageless linen, wrung out by an invisible hand, and the cycle repeats itself.

In a dusty corner of the past, nameless workers glazed striated marble and inlaid it with amethyst to house the earthly gear of a High Eater returned.

A fullerite hem surrounds a foam landing pad, and the above-head fretwork is braided into the once-familiar glyphs of recomposition and return symbology.

Clay was spun on the potter's wheel and shaped into waves, fired, and glazed into a ceremonial vessel. Two pictographs are panelled side-by-side: 'life' and 'drink'.

The corpse of a mopango.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:squat:afterpronoun= in a soft halo of cool light that emanates directly from the plates of =pronouns.possessive= carapace armor and the fur between. Every movement is accompanied by sibilant music as those plates slide over one another, whispering a wordless prayer.

This hunched, glowing, plated creature sits permanently affixed in a low-riding vehicle chassis, on which is mounted a pair of pristine wheels. =pronouns.Subjective= rolls about with practiced precision, speed outstripping that of =pronouns.possessive= ambulatory kin.

Three steel barrels fit together into an arc-edged triangle of luminous ritualism. They sit on a servo-articulated base mount. Above, a pair of separately-articulated cameras swivel with somewhat more life than one might typically expect from an automated weapon.

The molly netting spread over this mopango's carapace holds pouches of cooking ingredients and scrap alike. There is a familial care in the way =pronouns.subjective= watches over the other mopango, but when =pronouns.possessive= gaze turns to you, it is no less gentle, no less welcoming.

This small mopango all but blends into the catacomb walls, molly netting stretched across =pronouns.possessive= back like dark cobwebs with all manner of object caught within. =pronouns.Subjective= glows softer than the others, a gently bioluminescent piece of shifting stone.

Thin, sharp plates whisper as they press and slide against one another, driven by sinewy and coiling muscle.

This bowl-shaped basket of scrounged textiles and padding yawns with the promise of a humble, comfortable embrace followed by a laborious escape.

An acrid, stinking mess.

The whisper of this mopango's glowing plates is accompanied by a quiet clicking as =pronouns.subjective= =verb:drum:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= long claws together. The noise only ceases when =pronouns.subjective= =verb:reach:afterpronoun= up to tug at the molly netting stretched over =pronouns.possessive= back, checking the security of its contents again and again.

Silent as a sleeping slumberling, this mopango resembles nothing so much as a piece of phosphorescent rubble. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:move:afterpronoun= rarely, but =verb:do:afterpronoun= turn to carefully regard any potential threat or other curiosity.

This mopango cuts as strange a figure as any other, a hunched and plated creature with a long tail and a slow gait. In =pronouns.possessive= movements, however, this one is distinguished by a smooth grace, an aura of calm.

Only mottled light escapes the surface of this mopango's plates, as =pronouns.possessive= molly netting bulges with various and sundry pouches, bottles, bits of scrap, and other curios.

Supported by a quartet of lumpy, asymmetrical legs, three thick bands of shining carapace undulate independently in the space above. Protruding, prehensile braids of cordage end in electric eyes that twist in manic, desperate paroxysm. The air hums with scores of murmuring voices, ancient and directionless wisdom slurry made useless by volume.

Overlapping arches of glossy shell huddle into an impenetrable hemi-ovoid. Traveling slowly on an inadequate series of brush-shaped appendages, the surest way to tell which way this simple body faces is by the cross of light shining faintly from =pronouns.possessive= front plate. Faint voices speak from within the dome-being, too distant-sounding to comprehend.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:have:afterpronoun= no mouth, and yet =pronouns.subjective= =verb:scream:afterpronoun=. Heralded by a thin, sharp sound almost too high-pitched to hear is an entity both rigid and serpentine, bristling with wicked appendages that end in writhing, needle-sharp points. Dark eyes sweep the surroundings as =pronouns.subjective= =verb:wind:afterpronoun= =pronouns.possessive= path forward.

Borne on a half-dozen delicate, writhing tendrils, =pronouns.subjective= =verb:run:afterpronoun=. The sleek suggestion of an indeterminate terrestrial creature flows with shocking agility through the intervening space, =pronouns.possessive= features glistering in the light like erosion-sculpted glass. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:know:afterpronoun= not what =pronouns.subjective= =verb:run:afterpronoun= from or to, it is unable to ask where or why =pronouns.subjective= =verb:run:afterpronoun=, and yet =pronouns.subjective= =verb:run:afterpronoun= still.

Though it is approximately the size and heft of a human infant, this shiny black device's shape is more akin to a fetus torn early from the womb. Its surface is slick and warm, with a pale pulse breathing somewhere underneath its pitch-black skin. At the end of its tail is an orifice studded with hooked teeth, eternally questing for an anchor point that it never finds.

A thick, pulsing curtain of thrumming cables drapes over the shoulders, humming half-remembered insights to its wearer concerning the whimsies of long-forgotten artificers.

The transparent cross over the center of this large convex circle is as sturdy as the rest, hard as crysteel but lighter than carbide. Even the humblest motes of airborne dust divert their path to avoid its pristine surface.

This crown of thorns points outward, but its wearer's mind is pierced all the same, drawing in will and broadcasting power. Receiving that broadcast, allies fold themselves thin and stitch new folds in the fabric of existence.

Undulating about the bend in a limb, this bundled circle of glistening cable would make any wearer feel bound to motion. The legs long to run, and run they shall until they tire.

Flower buds cluster in sixes across =pronouns.possessive= time-maimed topaz bark and are ringed by glossy green leaves. =pronouns.Subjective= =verb:shoot:afterpronoun= up tall in defiance of millenia of wall shade, but =pronouns.possessive= crown sags with weary softness, and =pronouns.possessive= exposed roots trace the outline of a grassy salon. The grove's oldest tree, called the Haddas, welcomes you to =pronouns.possessive= shadow.

Stuck to =pronouns.possessive= rind of mirrored chrome sequins are two separate ecologies: the crispy deadgrowths of the inner Tomb and the verdurous molt of grove life. As the years spin by and the colossus adjusts to the sun-drenched outer world, the latter consumes the former.

Sharp leaves burst forth from a decorative pot like a verdant geyser frozen in place. The leaves twitch with an irritation at every offending stimulus, an assumption you might consider conjecture if not for the strong telepathic aura of frustration exuding from =pronouns.possessive= leafy form.

As still as if =pronouns.subjective= were hewn from the trunk of a tree, =pronouns.subjective= stands vigil. =pronouns.Subjective= wears a cloak nearly as weathered as =pronouns.subjective=, and gnarled hands grip the hilt of a naked greatsword.

From a hilt broken and remade, reinforced and wrapped and upkept time and again, extends an ancient double-edged blade. Murdered and reborn over ages, the blade bears scars from battles older than the memory of the techniques that forced it into killing shape time and again.

=pronouns.Subjective= =verb:maneuver:afterpronoun= under a tunic made from sackcloth and braided goat hair. =pronouns.Possessive= olive skin and straw hair glisten with Spindle dust.

Spools of hair are bunched under the frustum of =pronouns.possessive= habit, =pronouns.possessive= round cheeks are smeared with polyurethane and Spindle dust, and =pronouns.possessive= face is pulled low by the violence of =pronouns.possessive= square jaw. Long, muscular forearms are tensed by the repeated pinching motion of tool manipulation. =pronouns.Possessive= eyes are ultra keen and shine bright cyan, and =pronouns.possessive= vision smoothly segues between =pronouns.possessive= work and =pronouns.possessive= surroundings.

They're petal-shaded arks of nectarous secrets.

A jungle village of ape-god worshippers and their giant mushroom dwellings.

A naturally reddened outcropping of stone juts out of the salted crag.

Gijon Spring, rumored to hold a vast lake of crystalline water.  None have ever returned.

Here lies the Garden of Geth, from whose ancient coordinates seeds sprouted in spite of the earth's churlishness.

The Six Day Stilt rises from the dunes like a petrified kraken corpse, bearing down upon the vacant flats.

Eyn Rogel

Still erect is the superior half of the colossal gate inscribed with the runes of a hundred indecipherable tongues. Beneath its chrome palings a wide passage opens into the jungle loam.

A polyp vessel.

It's a coral polyp.

It's a palladium strut.

It's a palladium strut with coral growth.

It's a coral tree.

