
Whilom, when Salum was the lond of Qud,
Ther was highte Amus-an a sturdy Saad;
Of Caiafas was he lord magistrate,
Swich skilful arms dide earn him that estaat;
What with his wysdom and his hardynesse,
He conquered al the regne of Aldersesse;
And thurgh the eyr dashed undernethe his shroud,
And rafte the heddes of all thoos byg and proud;
And when the Coven quod by oon assent,
That starry Ptoh shal been to prison sente,
He leden all the wei and shette the dore,
While skerren men dide quake behinde his foore;
So buryen nought the Beren in a tumbe,
But fresen now to interrupt his dome;
And oon day resurrect to fighte agayn,
And maken sones of Salum all full fayn.

Welcome, Aristocrat, to a cybernetics learning nook. You are one 
step closer to the Grand Unification. Ask a question.
 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.
Insightful question, Aristocrat. Cybernetics implants are the mind-machines that unify your biomatter with the heavier, choicer elements. With cybernetic implants, your ugly arms, eyes, and knowledge will be much prettier. Obviously, they are only available to the genetically pure.

Ask a question.

 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.
Aristocrat, your question was most finely uttered. Aside from the
various improvements each implant offers over its biomatter 
counterpart, prosthetic limbs are also much sturdier and 75% less
likely to be severed.

Ask a question.

 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.
Aristocrat, your skepticism is perfect. When subject to 
eletromagnetic pulses, cybernetic limbs are deactivated and 
anything worn on them is rendered useless. Similarly, data 
indexer modules are deactivated when pulsed, and prosthetic 
vision may become jumbled.

Ask a question.

 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.
You are correct, Aristocrat. Firstly, make sure there are credits
remaning on your cybernetics credit wedge. The installation of a 
cybernetic implant costs one credit.

Then, you must propel yourself over to the appropriate nook. Make
sure the limb rack is loaded with the desired cybernetic limb, or
the ocular module deck is loaded with the desired ocular module, 
or the data indexer module deck is loaded with the desired data 
indexer module.


~Finally, interface with the cybernetics terminal. Then you will
have succeeded in doing the thing you wished to do.

Ask a question.

 What are cybernetic implants?
 What are the benefits of cybernetics?
 What are the risks of cybernetics?
 How do I install a cybernetic implant?
 Goodbye.
Gas is too misty.
Glass is too feeble.
Solids are too rocky.
Liquid crystals are not liquids!
Copolymers, decide what you are!
Bose-Einstein condensates are too wavy.
Superfluids are too unruly.
Fermionic condensates contain too many fermions.
Rydberg molecules are too excited.
Strange matter is too strange.
Plasma is too hot.
Quark-gluon plasma, contain your quarks!
Degenerate matter is too vulgar.
Loopfluids are too maddening.
String-net liquids, they are alright too, I suppose.
But Qo-Caco condensates are delicious.
KLANQ!
Children, let's rejoice in the sovereignty of our Argent Fathers.
Praise Shekhinah, first among Fathers, who lights the path of wisdom.
Praise Dagon, the rhetorical, who speaks truth to chrome.
Praise Bel, shield-Father, who parts the swirling gas clouds.
Praise Carthax, silver-haired, who dashes down the well of gravity.
Praise Nisroch, ore-in-hand, who collides earth and star.
Praise Resheph, the Above, who purifies our mercury.
And blessed be the Kasaphescence, the muse who rouses their hearts.
Have you heard of the blessed baetyls, children?
They were created to oblige our desires.
O praise our Argent Fathers! Kindest and wisest of all beings.
A baetyl, you see, will answer your prayers.
It's in its circuitry to do so!
But the sin of time has corroded their wiring.
We are wanting in our service to our Fathers.
And so the baetyls are wanting in their service to us.
Answer not a baetyl who makes a request of you!
For it's a request most unholy in its corrosion.
Ignore it, and seek guidance from a priest!
Today, I recount the story of the Sacred Joining.
O, holy union! Blessed be thy name.
Our Argent Fathers, who roamed the azure void with inert hearts,
On a fluctuating whim converged upon Our Radiant Mother.
There, at the center of the universe, they beheld Her in awe.
Enchantment! It knows no other name!
There, they permeated her roiling membrane...
And exploded from within, colliding matter into machines...
Which passed through Her naked womb.
Rejoice! The Joining is through! Their union is consummated!
Today, children, I speak on the Edification.
O, hallowed act! Blessed be the metallurgy!
Our Argent Fathers, having hardened our plasmatic Mother,
Molded Her into Euclidean forms.
Bel sketched the parabola, Carthax sculpted the torus.
Shekhinah leveled the hills and capped them with chromatic domes.
Earth was quickened for our coming. Our home was ready.
The sin of time has corroded our endowment...
But worship eagerly, and the land shall shine again!
Welcome, children! Welcome to the Cathedral of Shekhinah, Our Argent Father!
Have you heard the Word of Shekhinah?
Do you bear his tidings in your heart?
Come, share this peaceful space.
Unburden yourself from the weight of your chrome guilt.
I am His voice, and I shall speak His word to you.
Here, here are our Argent Fathers!
They are the Great Sculptors. They wrought our metallic homes.
We are forever in their debt.
Repay that debt, lightseeker! Offer your chrome to Shekhinah!
Cleanse it of your guilt, your burdens. Throw it down the Sacred Well.
Let your possessions be reclaimed by the plasmatic core, and make a joyful noise unto Shekhinah.
He is your Argent Father! They are your Argent Fathers!
They have borne the weight of this Earth and a thousand others.
Theirs are the shoulders of titans! Theirs are the hearts of krakens!
And O! Their hearts are full!
'Twas not always so. Nay, in the waking dawn of days they roamed the universe with inert hearts.
As a dust urchin roams the winding canyons.
As you roam the caves of Qud, burdened by guilt and complexity!
Pay homage, lightseeker! Make an offering at the Well!
Fill your heart with the love of the Kasaphescence, as our Fathers once did!
In the name of Nisroch, honor thy Well!
In the name of Bel, rain your alloys down to the heart of the Stilt!
In the name of Dagon, speak chrome's prayer and empty your barrels, unholster your guns!
In the name of Carthax, vault your artifacts into the sacred portal!
In the name of Resheph, cleanse them of your flesh!
In the name of Shekhinah, free them, and free yourself!
Make the ground shake but the Six Day Stilt never crumble!
Come. Be with friends.
Share your life in simple peace.

"Strap this around your temples. Stop yammering, you will be fine.
What could possibly go wrong?"

      

"Breathe deep the breath of gods, and die."

      

"Black devils swing from starry masts,
beneath the Yawning Moon."

      

"Today we shove off our frozen haunts, across bleak Arthax, and spy
for those inverted hills of chrome."

      

"Who inhabits the colossal desert freehold of Nanru? The Gathered Men.
The fiefdoms of Odrum? The Kneeling Men.
The jungles of Yyp? The Breathless Men.
And the rust-caves of Qud? The Screaming Men."

      

"Live and drink, friend. Now give me your water."

      

"Moon and Sun; wisdom and will."

      

"Praises due to the most high, thy Argent Father, me."

      

"Look on my riches, ye Wealthy, and despair! (but do not touch)"

      

"Yes, I know the secrets of the circuitry mind. It's a flaming
wonder, telepath."

      

"It burns!"

      

"Rule with a tungsten carbide fist."

      

"Alas, I'd make a slumberling divine,
for in the dreaming dale art thou yet mine."

      

"There it is in all of us -- shades of our elder selves. Within each
man, a goat. Within each goat, a man!"

      

"What is the nature of this thing we bludgeon? Or of the act itself?"

      

"To ply those silver hollows -- a spry adventurer's dream!"

      

"Don't heed the tale of every thirsty fool."

      

"Grrrraaaah."

      

"May you bathe in blood. Not your own blood, sir. The blood of the
recast. I mean, the reclaimed. May you bathe in the blood of the
reclaimed."

      

"May you bathe in the blood of the reclaimed."

      

"Do those legs absorb water? Do they even synthesize cytokinins? I
didn't think so."

      

"Upon hearing the news of the king's death, Uutut's political
adversaries cheered Wysterwort as a hero. They were soon disabused."

      

"I have gazed into the hundred nine eyes of Shug'ruith the Burrower."

      

"May the ground shake but the Six Day Stilt never tumble!"

      

"O, wise men! Keep thyselves assured wise,
and where a maid approcheth, shut thine eyes."

      

"Nay, you should desire none of these things, for we are ravenous
fiends and oft succumb to fits of maddened fury."

      

"Erecting a lodge is no paltry charge. Near all of my day is spent
chipping and stacking wood, and though you marvel at the lodge
itself, you may scowl at the labor that brings it forth."

      

"In all these things you may with us partake, but take heed, for ours
are idle lives, and you may soon grow weary of them."

      

"Klanq puff at you."

      

"Feast upon the goat hearts!"

      

*The ink is faded beyond legibility*
  

A mimic crawled from the cold, starless reaches of Bethesda Susa to stretch itself across the prairie grass and warm its gummy scales in the sun of the noonday. Warm breezes blew through the lonely heath, and before long the mimic fell into a lazy sleep. Hours of restful slumber passed until it was stirred awake by the near rustling of shrubs. Its eyes opened upon the visages of three fork-horned gnus grazing on the prairie grass. Tresses of auburn hair streamed from their mammoth heads as they leisurely chewed the straw of the earth.

Allured by their languorous way and wanting for companionship, the mimic asked the gnus if he could tread among them, and graze of their pastures, and nap with them beneath the evening sun. "In all these things you may with us partake," said one gnu, "but, take heed, for ours are idle lives, and you may soon grow weary of them."

But the mimic joined them anyway. Day after day it filled its belly with the tall grass, and it cooled its lips upon the quiet banks of streams, and it surrendered its sluggish mind to the land of Nod before the light of day was extinguished. Until one morning, while the gnus slackly chewed their grass tendered by the early dew, the mimic, who had indeed grown weary of the beasts' idle habits, stole away down a babbling brook and into a thicket dark with shade.
      

For the remainder of the day the mimic followed the brook as it winded its way into the wood. As the last of the waxen light began to seep from the air, the mimic noticed several peculiar pilings of muddy sticks and logs up ahead in the middle of the prattling stream. A musker, its brown fur soaked and pressed against its small body, arranged twigs around the base of one of the piles. The mimic understood immediately; these were the musker's lodges, each one meticulously erected twig by twig. So impressed was the mimic with these well-built abodes and the diligence of the musker that it asked the rodent if it would share its home, and teach the mimic its craft, and abide the mimic as it built a lodge of its own. "Erecting a lodge is no paltry charge," said the musker. "Near all of my day is spent chipping and stacking wood, and though you marvel at the lodge itself, you may scowl at the labor that brings it forth."

But the mimic stayed with the musker anyway. And the following morning it awoke with the musker at dawn, and together they hewed branches from the Wine Cypresses with their teeth until the pall of evening was cast, and then they gathered all the rent wood and packed it together with mud drawn from the bed of the brook. At the break of each day they began anew, and they did not quit until long after sunset when the mimic could no longer spot the musker in the darkling thicket. Until one morning, while the musker wore its teeth on a rotting log, the mimic, who had
      

indeed grown weary of the labor charged to it by the musker, sneaked away by the babbling brook, out of the shady wood and into a valley quilted with the gnarled roots of brinestalk.

Again the mimic followed the stream through the hollow crook of the foothills until it spent its brackish waters into a vast lake. Here upon the bleached shore, the mimic gazed into the lake and marveled at a shoal of madpoles as they lashed through the briny water and pursued their fishy prey. The ferocity of these hunters, unrivaled in their agility and viciousness, enchanted the mimic, and so it asked the madpoles if it could dive into their waters, and race with them through the weeds, and feast upon the scaly flesh of the smaller fish. "Nay, you should desire none of these things" said one madpole, "for we are ravenous fiends and oft succumb to fits of maddened fury."

But the mimic dived into the lake anyway. And as it splashed in the water, the madpoles, who sensed in their proximity living and nubile flesh, darted toward the mimic and tore it limb from limb.
      

Birds can't eat rice that wasn't planted.
    

Reared on the wisdom of our fairy tales, we're accustomed to feeling pity for the man who's transformed into a frog or finch, but seldom is it that we spare a thought for the artless beast who's transformed into a man and upon whom fate has surely played a much crueler trick.
    

If asked who's responsible for your misfortunes, blame birds. They neither care, nor can they muster much of a defense.
    

Let no fear in your heart grow so immense as the fear for large birds.
    

Birds ruin festivals and lift sieges.
    

Ol' Uri squinted and then nodded at the glowcrow's suggestion for a game of backgammon.

The boy started. "But Uri! How can you dice with these vermin after one pecked out your eye?"

Uri shrugged, "Can't blame the crow. He was gonna peck, whether my eye was there or not."
    

The sighting of a crimson swift augurs the death of an aged water baron.

A silver thrush heralds a fossil harvest bountiful in chrome.    

But the tongueless kagu... stay far from a tongueless kagu. Far and farther.
    

Some birds breathe fire. My meaning here is plain.
    

Atop the Spindle, where debtors and birds go.

Editor's note: this excerpt is published with permission from the notes of Barathrum the Old.

There's evidence in the arithmetic record that the study of formal systems reached a pernicious apex in the Long Before. Advancements made by mathematicians such as Russell, Gödel, Eisencruft, Atufu, Wheatgrass, and System Star contributed to the understanding of notions like undecidability, pointed regularism, and abyssalism. Upon reaching this minimal degree of mathematical maturity, equipped with sophisticated grammars, researchers set out to experiment with the limits of expressibility. They contrived bold research programs and galloped into the mathematical wood, unwitting of the dangers that brood there.

The record is even scarcer than usual, due to the efforts of successive generations to obfuscate the venture. As best as I can gather, at some point in the course of inquiry, a theorist from a mathematical seminary called the Cupola formulated a conjecture on the fragility of formal semantics. The conjecture ripened to a broader theory, out of which spawned a formal system called the penumbra calculus. In the few fragments of texts that predate the obfuscation, it's stated that, in the penumbra calculus, certain theorems are provable, but are falsified upon the completion of their proofs. As much as this result is at odds with the systems of thought I've encountered in my own inquiries, I find little reason to doubt the veracity of the authors. Nevertheless, it's certainly a peculiar property.

The Cupola theorist's results erupted into a grand investigation into the expressibility of the penumbra calculus. The conclusions were troubling. Pushing further, researchers constructed sister systems with alternate axioms. These systems were still more fragile, with the systems' inference rules themselves unraveling upon the completion of certain proofs.

Convinced that their discoveries were made possible by some idiosyncrasy of self-awareness, but synchronously fearful of the implications of their results, some schools of theorists engineered complex automated deduction systems to probe boundary thereoms and launched them into neutron stars. The outcome is undocumented, but the result convinced theorists across the Coven to abandon research and blacklist anyone who studied the penumbra calculus and its derivative systems.

Peculiarly, support for the injunction was unanimous. Of note, even the spacefolder Ptoh agreed to abandon its investigation into the forbidden calculi from the reaches of its bleak star. Though the manner of its consent was not without controversy; to announce its accord, it inverted the color charge of quarks in a small region of space, causing a research station to collapse in on itself. Nonetheless, Ptoh's consent is testament to the degree of existential anxiety that could cause investigation into the penumbra calculus to go dark.
  

                
                
                
                
                
                
                why is deceit so accessible to me?
Why do some creatures seem to prefer when we assume their likenesses while others hate it? As a zoologist, this question has interested me for some time. To address it, I must first draw a distinction between 'natural mimicry', where certain humanoids have developed animal and plant likenesses on a biological level, and 'unnatural mimicry', enacted in the forms of clothing and other decorative adornments. As for the former, it appears all creatures exhibit kinship toward humanoids who look like them in the biological sense. The latter scenario is the interesting one.

It's tempting to draw the divide between mammals and non-mammals, but the truth is more complicated than this. It's true that the only creatures who seem to take outright offense at mimicry are mammals, but there are documented cases of mammals accepting the mimic. For example, fork-horned helms endear their wearers to both antelopes and goatfolk.

On the contrary, ape fur clothing and puma chitin vests inflame apes and cats, respectively. The important detail here is the context in which the clothing is made. Poachers hunt apes and pumas specifically for their prized fur and chitinous shells, and being reasonably social creatures, both species take offense at the flaunting of these trophies. Birds, on the other hand, seem to know that feather harvesting can be (although isn't always) done without proving fatal for the bird in question, though another hypothesis points to birds' specific appreciation of plumage regardless of context.

Unshelled reptiles seem to have few qualms with mimicry, perhaps believing the mimics to be truly reptile in part. Mollusks, trees, and insects all tend to identify with shell-bearers, leaf-donners, and firefly-symbiotes, respectively.

Without exception, however, all creatures seem to detest the practice of wearing the severed faces of their kin. Curious.
    
~ ~ ~ by Q Girl ~ ~ ~

Formulation and Animus
In the course of my readings and correspondances, I've observed two eminent threats to social equality. The first is the dissolution of social order via entropic forces. The fabric that holds us together frays and we fall apart, our most vulnerable first. The second is hegemonic control exerted by a few over a many. Here the fabric is knit tightly, but it's stitched into a ladder that narrows in ascension, and the majority are consigned to the bottom rung.

My first task is to ask how we can study these phenomena. In the physical sciences, we observe, measure, and experiment in order to formulate and then test hypotheses. Here, though, observations are sectional, data is spottier, and the systems at play are far more complex, their edges softer. Applying a 10x scope of rationality to a 1000x-scale structure would lead me to harmfully reductive conclusions. In fact, this very approach is employed by hegemonic powers to invent facile justifications for their rule.

So in complement, I borrow from other approaches and systems of thought. In particular, I'm interested in how artists examine these phenomena and challenge orthodoxy through metaphors. The art-historical record is fragmented but fraught with examples. One that stands out to me is the account of Red Sky, whose totally quetzal conceit was the first to whet my curiosity on the subject.

As the story goes, the entire court of an ancient sultan, including the sultan himself, was addicted to a psychotropic salt called Ipsis. Conspiring with a sorority of smugglers, an unnamed artist plundered the sultan's stock of Ipsis, molecularly altered it into a composite cellular structure, and launched it into low orbit. There it burned red in the sky, an affront to the sultan's sovereignty, for three years. Each time the sultan tried to disperse it through the means available to him, the structure, described in the record as a cellular automaton, rearranged itself and persisted. Quetzal.

There are plenty of modern examples too. One of the artists whose work I most admire is Eta. Eta makes psionic crystal mazes on the edge of the Moon Stair. I first formulated the entropy/hierarchy dichotomy while exploring one filled with ambulatory nodules, each of which 'fizz' when alone, vibrate at pleasing frequencies in groups, but 'pop' when enough other nodules start to orbit it. I'd quetzal if I could meet Eta, but it may prove difficult as the rumors say they're a subentity of the sentient tree-city Chavvah.

The Two Poles
Two groups typify the two poles of the entropy/hierarchy dichotomy: the Glow-Wights and the Putus Templar. The ethos of the Glow-Wights is chaotic self-indulgence, antipathy to kinship, and mutagenic excess. They billow like an excited gas, smashing into each other as often as anyone else, and peeling bits of order from the entities they pillage. They are enactors of senseless violence.

The Templar on the other hand are enactors of extremely ordered violence. Their brutality has been codified into orthodoxy. Their ideological structures are anti-entropic but destructive and abhorrent. They seek to construct a rigidly hierarchical society with a slave caste on the bottom rung. Through rituals like the baptism in the blood of the reclaimed, they indoctrinate the privileged among their subjects. The rest of us are met only with force.
    
~ ~ ~ by Q Girl ~ ~ ~

I'd like to reproduce a perspective I recently shared with a friend, a lamplighter by trade and an artist too, who shied away from a typography tournament at the festival of Ut yara Ux because of a fear in her heart. She suffers from the malady of the mimic, the all too common sickness that makes us feel like we're performing our lives instead of inhabiting them, that we don't belong next to those who've won success nor do we deserve those same successes when we've won them ourselves. I've counted myself among its victims in the past, and occasionally I still do.

First, indulge me for short while. On a shelf in my workshop sits a simple contraption called a morphoscope. It's comprised of two parts: an armature of pliable aluminum wire and a rotary base. It's purpose is to communicate a three-dimensional form from a two-dimensional viewing plane. The armature can be contorted such that, when viewed in its still state, it looks like a jumbled mess of wire, but when viewed in rotation it assumes the familiar form of an object, such as a bird or urshiib countenance. 

What's this have to do with the malady of the mimic? To answer that, we must deconstruct the malady. Let's ask: what is it to be a mimic, to appear as a thing but feel like another? Essentially it's a phenomenon of semantic distance, a sensation of the space between what we perceive in others and what we perceive about ourselves. We've constructed a representation of what, in the case of my friend, a proper artist and typographer looks like. Why do we have such trouble squaring that representation with our own image?

The answer lies in the richness of our self-perception. We see ourselves in stereo, our wire armature plied by our experiences, our self-image formed by rotating it about the axis of time. What we call 'artist' or 'typographer' is just a jumbled mess of wire, an unfamiliar pattern we give a name to in absence of the context of life's motion. Were we to see our peers in rotation, gain perspective on their doubts, their fears, their pain, the jumbled mess of a pattern would disappear into the familiar form of a person. And conversely, had we the capacity to freeze our own motion, to see ourselves absent of the context of our doubt, fear, and pain, we'd see an artist and a typographer just the same.

There's a fable about a mimic whose seeks to belong but never does, whose ambition ultimately leads to a grisly fate. Its moral serves an ideological function: to keep us from belonging where we already do. So let me say to you now: belong, friend. We wait for you joyously.
    



I come from the west. My parents sold me into slavery as a babe, though the practice had been formally abolished in Perth years earlier. As a boy I cut my teeth on the reefs of the Shore of Songs, and lulled the Pale Sea to sleep with many a hymn, that she might return our sailors from the Black Stair unscathed. How the melodies whisked inside my skull even then. I was given no name at birth, but the sailors called me Catu.

At five and ten years I ran away. On Ettinspine I roosted with an eremite who ushered me into manhood. I learned to hunt, and laugh, and dream. In time I came to know of the Free City and the ingress afforded my kind. I shoved off from my stony nook, and trekked to their high gate, and settled there, though I preferred to sup with the anglers and other low folk.

In a sun-warmed pool under the rampart the Free Seer first noticed me. The slant of his neck from where he watched on the parapet presaged my movements, I still recall. I stood from my bath and shamefully padded to my discarded vest, but stopped. I saw him from that distance, his eyes tucked deep into his shorn dome, his frock as inert as a statue's, and I felt no more shame.

Under his tutelage I rose to prominence in his court. I stood by his side as he treated with the tuyuldars of Odrum, as he plotted against the southern freeholds. When a traitorous canter slipped poison into his cup, I smashed it from his hands and sundered the quisling's mind. That night, in the hour of the Beetle Moon, he introduced me to the mirth of an assembled mind. Together with the other canters we Joined, and he named me Mirthful, and raised me unto his honor guard. I would be dispossessed of it in under a year.

But I must pause now. The Cant loudens, and the Elder nears. I vow to conclude my story if I still draw breath, and if I am free.




It is dusk. I sit on the bank of the River Svy, but no fire warms my bones. The risk of drawing moon-doting beasts is too great, and any aggregation of minds is sure to attract the attention of the Elder. Instead, I write by a flame kindled on my thumb.

I left off at being named Mirthful in the Hall of the Free Seer. No honor is higher for a canter of Oth. For months I trained with my masked compatriots beneath the Hall, where our clay cisterns stored the freshwater that would later haunt my dreams. In the spring a letter arrived from the Angler King. He sought a treaty with the Free Seer and invited us to a neutral council on the doorstep of Ibunudr, arbitrated by the tuyuldar of Doria. After much preparation we set out, rowing our sketties beyond the Bowl of Iris and to the frosty shores of that far tundra.

Over the course of the journey the Free Seer's disposition soured. He withdrew from the counsel of the Mirthful, even my own, and spent the better part of the wintry trek alone in his tent. At first I attributed his mood to the fragility of our diplomatic high ground, but I soon learned the true tack.

We arrived at the camp on Ibunudr on the summer solstice. The twin banners of Athenreach and Doria thrashed in the wind, and the hymns of the Eustace-Sutta carried. I remember smiling at the throaty crooning of their priests. As we studied the campground from a hillock, as the Free Seer ambled up to my side, I saw the jewel of the Hanging Hills, Nisramet, the Angler King's wife, she who cemented the peace between her father's fiefdoms and the Angler King's freehold. I saw her, and I immediately knew my own treachery. The Free Seer's gaze was acknowledgement enough.



I've arrived at Kyakukya. Kind Nuntu shares his hut with me, offers me smoked mushroom, and asks nothing in return. I write these words at his desk, and though he lusts for knowledge himself, he leaves me be to chronicle my past.

The campaign back toward Oth was grim. I awaited my fate at the Free Seer's hands, though I anticipated being given the dignity of first returning to the Hall and my home. I was not afforded so much. One dismal night, under the Beetle Moon, I was accosted in my tent by my masked brothers. To my bewilderment, the Stithening had come already. How had the Free Seer acquired the cherrydotters? Had he bargained for them at Ibunudr, or had he possessed them all along? To this day I do not know.

I remember little of the Stithening outside the beating of my own heart high in my ears. I passed out, and when I awoke next morning, the cavalcade had vanished. Only a moment did my recognition last before the chanting in my head took hold. I had heard it before, of course. All my life, in fact. It was the chanting that I weaved my melodies around on the shores of Perth as a small boy. Now, though, it was as if a single, distant canter had summoned a thousand of his kin, and they each summoned a thousand of their own. I wept, then I screamed, then I tore the hair from my head. The chant animated my bones more surely than my volition ever had. East and south, it urged. East and south. East and south. Toward Qud.

My recollection of the voyage to the Great Salt Desert is fractured and fitful. I grew sicker by the day, but the chant grew louder, and so quickened the force that compelled me. Surely I would die once I reached the moistureless plains of Moghra'yi, presumably as had my predecessors before me. Finally, I did reach them, where a salt-churned rivulet dried under a golden arch. The arch seems a thing born of my dementia but that I recall it so vividly, and that I know it's the least of the secrets kept by Moghra'yi.
 



I edge closer to the grove of fungi and its preposterous promise. Are the whispers true? Could it be all so simple? I can feel the moistness of the Eater's flesh on my lips, though the memory is surely another's. If salvation awaits me, then I promise to take it, whether or not I deserve it. Tonight, though, the jungle shrouds me. I sit under a chrome belfry, a leech kneading at my skin. I feel no compulsion to bar its work. The companionship is welcome.

Now to awaken the past once more. Moghra'yi. O, how the dromads know!

How did I survive the Great Desert? I cannot say for sure. I owe something to the songs I sang at Perth, to the falconry I learned on Ettinspine, to the honing of my sinew under Oth. The fractured dream that was my voyage offers little elucidation. But I do remember chewing salt, and summoning gusts of wind to suck the moisture out of the dead air.

Of all the riven memories that churn in my head, Moghra'yi only accounts for a coherent three. The first is a vision of ruin at the fabled Kubrisyeti, the seat of the Wrathchild empire. Stretched across the alabaster plain were the last of their wicked structures, toppled effigies of the manscorpions themselves. I reposed there, against my will and only out of exhaustion. Fixated on the night sky in fear and fatigue, I heard the echoes of a great saltback's steps. Even those gargantuans know to avoid the place.

The second memory is the presence of the giants. Colossal skeletons in the forms of humanoids litter the desert. I had heard the accounts before, and indeed some of the specimens extend as far north as Odrum. Their history is wholly unknown to us or anyone else, but their bones provide some of the only shade on the salt pans, and so they grew to be welcome sights. So it was with horror that I discerned a truth, one night, while tucked into the rib cage of one of three cadavers in a small proximity. You see, all the carcasses shared a commonality: their orientation. East and south. East and south.

The third memory is the rust. Rusted hulls and rusted spires. It took me weeks to realize what I beheld. For all my boyhood was rife with sketties and ships, but none were of this size. I envisioned what the past must have looked like, as little sense as it made to me. Moghra'yi as a vast sea, and monstrous vessels mounting its waves. Markings and etches on their hulls had no resonance for me then. Later, though, I recognized the figure of the Spindle, and I glimpsed the importance it held for these sea-faring Eaters.

When I lurched to the ground and was righted by a brown-skinned man with a knife and glowing cat at his feet, I knew it was a dream. It must be a dream.




I owe my life to =SEEKERENEMY=. In my haste to reach the fungal grove, I misstepped. My wandering and buoyant mind blinded itself to the presence of a chosen one. She neared me, set on enveloping me back into the fold, but she was intercepted by =SEEKERENEMY=. For what purpose did they intercede I do not know, but they have my thanks. So must they have the Elder's ire.

I come now to Qud and the Seekers of the Sightless Way. The chanting compounded in my skull into a final ecstasy, wherein I joined an aggregate mind the likes of which I hadn't fathomed. I was primed for it, though. From my first joining on Ettinspine all those years ago, to the Rite of Mirth chaperoned by the Free Seer, I knew that sight guides us no more than salt does. There is ecstasy in the aggregate, indeed, and the Elder is as powerful a center as I've known. But a center is it still, and where there is a center, there is a hierarchy.

Which piece of my past endowed me with the wisdom to see through the ruse? Was it the boyhood memory of crashing waves on the Shore of Songs, echoed later in my vision at Moghra'yi? Was it the jealousy in the eyes of the Free Seer at Ibunudr? Or was it a mere wrinkle in the mass mind, owing nothing to my own struggle? I cannot say, but while the other canters piped their songs to weaken the Elder's prison, unknowing thralls to a greater mind, I escaped.

The Elder... no, Ptoh. I write the name in defiance of my captivity even at the risk it incurs. Ptoh knew nothing at first, but my absence dawned in time. The continuity was broken, and Ptoh sent agents to seize me. Even now, they near.



It is too late. Though I sit near a stream of primordial soup, though clouds of spores surround me, it is too late. My invocation of Ptoh's name fixed my location and trajectory. The Eater's flesh is mine now, but the Chosen will be here in corporeal form too soon. Could I have lived outside the aggregate for very long, in any case? I do not know. The solitude wears on me as much as my flight. I've one last sundering to perform. A sundering. A memory of a distant life, a lost dream, takes hold. I sunder the mind of a foe to protect a lover.
    



The following is a record of known afflictions, their symptoms and cures, which I have compiled from the logs and personal notes I authored during the course of my forty-year tenure as physician and apothecary to the farmstead of Kardis. Abbott Urium of the neighboring Monastery of the Illustrious Heart of Chrome has agreed to instruct the monks of the scriptorium to reproduce this text for posterity; the reader who finds use in these notes is indebted to him.




      



The leg bones of patients stricken with this disease of unknown origin remain in a state of perpetual calcification. The afflicted patient will complain of aching joints and restricted movement as the rate of bone growth accelerates. Once the disease is fully blown, the bones will harden and grow at an advanced rate. The untreated patient will suffer increasingly restricted movement until the bones are fused together at the hip, knee, and ankle joints and the patient is rendered immobile. This process takes between one and two weeks.

Ironshank may be suppressed in its early stages with common remedies such as yuckwheat or honey, though the more potent elixirs of the Eaters are preferable where available. Once the disease is fully blown and the patient begins to lose mobility, gel (made from desalinated amoeba slime) is the only effective treatment I've discovered. The patient should be administered a draught composed of one dram of gel and one dram of =IS1= every day until the leg joints regain their full range of motion.
      



This is probably the most bizarre of the afflictions I've encountered in my forty years as a physician. Moon King Fever is a brain disorder characterized by an unwavering belief that the victim is the king of the moon. All twelve of the afflicted patients who I've treated experienced identical symptoms: burning fever and accompanying fever dreams of the moon followed by hyper-emotive facial expressions, delusions of grandeur, and a disregard for self-preservation.

There are no known treatments for Moon King Fever. The prognosis is madness followed by "glorious feat"-induced death.



Glotrot is an affliction characterized by necrosis of the tongue. Judging by evidence gathered from my patients' accounts, I place the disease's origin within the cavern of Golgotha where victims most likely contracted it from the putrid spawn of Agolgut.
      

The afflicted patient will complain of soreness in the throat as the tongue tissue begins to swell. Within a week's span, the muscle will soften and start to decompose. The patient will experience severe pain while ingesting food or drink and may agitate the last of the raw, living tissue causing the mouth to bleed. Over the following few days, the tongue will rot in its entirety, rendering the patient incapable of speech.

Common remedies (yuckwheat, honey) are sometimes effective in reversing the necrosis if they are administered in its early stages. Once the tongue has completely rotted away, only the scarce ubernostrum tonic will  cause it to regrow. However, simply ingesting the tonic will merely regrow the tongue, which will proceed to rot away once more. The patient must first ingest a potion called the Flaming Ick -- one part =GR1=, one part =GR2=, three parts =GR3=, and drank from a flaming mug or canteen. Once the patient's mouth is purged of the disease in this manner, the ubernostrum tonic may be administered.
      



I've observed several varities of symbiotic fungal infections on patients who've come into contact with the spores of brooding puffers. Mercifully, puffers seem to thrive only in the dense fungal colony of the eastern jungle and the occassional fungus-rich biome. Characteristics of each infection differ, but all types of symbiotic fungi colonize a region of the afflicted's body. The colonization takes two to three days to complete, during which time the patient may report itchiness of the skin. The deformation and sensitivity that result once the full affliction takes hold tends to prevent the donning of clothing in the afflicted region.



In cases of fickle gill, infection culminates in the formation of fleshy, spore-bearing gills in the colonized region. Upon certain stresses, typically under bodily harm, the gills flex and release a cloud of spores, numbering in the thousands, that shower onto adjacent parties, ostensibly protecting their host. The rained spores in turn colonize their new hosts, rating this disease among the most contagious.



The appearance of frosty, luminous nodules characterize this colony. As is always the case with symbiosis, the fungus does seem to 'benefit' its carrier by coarsening the skin and providing some protection from the elements. Some patients report gratification in consuming the edible hoarshrooms that sprout from their skin; accounts vary according to the personalities of the afflicted.



The colony of filamentous vermillion seems to incubate a living tissue that resembles human lips. The lips pair together to form tiny 'mouths' that tesselate the infected region. A saliva-like sputum gets frothed up from the dermal base and forms into bubbles that pop when the lips spasm and purse. Each pair of spasming lips flagellate each other to produce a sort of speech-like mumble. Even more curiously, the mumbling across the cluster of mouths occasionally coheres into intelligble words and phrases, suggesting the colony is able to reproduce sounds from a collective memory.



This species of fungus secretes a fatty wax that dries into a protective cast. While it insulates the encased appendage from physical harm and electrical current, patients report sluggish response times, and the infected flesh is susceptible to liquification when heated. In fact, habitual body heat tends to melt the inner layers of the cast, trapping a few drams of molten wax between the skin and casing. Occasionally, this milky broth leaks out of the cast and onto the ground.

The treatment regimen for all fungal infections is the same. First, an anti-fungal cream must be concocted from gel (desalinated slime) and =FCL=. The patient then consumes a raw =FCC= to stimulate intestinal immunity. Within two hours of ingesting the corpse, use a spray bottle to apply one dram of the concotion to the infected skin. 


Now I confer upon myself sovereignty over the artifice of language, that
the Other may possess sight of the path along which I lead my thralls.

Toward Amaranth! O Deathless City! Whence my cloven-hoofed children dream
themselves into being.

Hear Mamon! Their beneficent Father! He who is wrought of his own dream
stuff.

Amaranthine Mamon. Amaranthine Father. Amaranthine dream.

inscrutable ramblings
inscrutable ramblings
inscrutable ramblings
inscrutable ramblings

Yet feast upon the goat hearts!
      



Webs everywhere. Sound of rushing water below. Impressions of tiny claws on shale floor. Extinct miniature cave-dwelling bird? No jasper.




Spider bite! Dropped half my wafers in mud. Ol' Uri laughing?. No jasper.




Another pair of moccasins ruined. River is close. Dug myself to exhaustion. No jasper.


Soaking wet. Empty chest. Not my day. No jasper.






Lost! Crab eggs? Bizarre scuttling noise. NO JASPER.

Frivolous Lives: Being the Foremost Catalogue of Humanoid Kings by the Baccata Yewtarch, Volume I


This record draws upon the notes and accounts of the constituents of the Consortium of Phyta, hearsay from those who observed the futile lives of the humanoid kings, and personal anecdotes of the kings themselves, who in their struggles to remain relevant beyond their seedling-like lifespans managed to record some useful data.

As a matter of convention, I date the reigns of the humanoid kings according to their chronological distance from an event of paramount historical significance, namely the publication of these volumes. Accordingly, take my suffixal notation rendered after the parenthetical dates to signify their occurrence "prior [to] publication".


During this period of humanoid prehistory the greater Girsh entities roamed Outer Qud and humanoid communities were largely isolated. Consortium records predate the end of the Scattered Age, however they are disparate in their assertions and ultimately unreliable; the period's dearth of scholarship is
      

likely a result of traditions derived from Hegelrut's contempt of writingimplements.


The first humanoid to successfully unite the farmsteads of western Qud was Abram, called the Sower. According to the lore of Abram's descendants (of which the Consortium has chosen not to disabuse them), Abram's call to arms rallied his kinsmen and under his sovereignty they drove the greater Girsh entities beneath the surface to the depths of Inner Qud at which they now roost. To follow were two or three decades of jubilation and prosperity that lasted until the day Abram, disillusioned by the growing tumult among his sons on the question of succession, famously beat his sword into a ploughshare and dissolved his kingdom.


The years that followed Abram's dissolution were marked by fear, turmoil, and bloodshed. His sons fought fiercely for control of the farmsteads while water barons conspired against them and in some cases staked their own claims. At last, sometime between 970 and 960 PP, Abram acknowledged the futility of the prospect of peace without his providence and returned to the throne with his sword in hand.
      


Unfortunately for the reluctant king, his second reign proved to be much less auspicious than his first. The jealously among his sons never died, and what little record remains of the period indicates Abram spent the remaining years of his life in anguish over what his rulership had wreaked.


Having never publicly named an heir, Abram left his kingdom to the devices of his scheming sons. No consensus was reached among them, and for eight years the brothers warred until Cairo I was able to consolidate power and wrest his father's kingdom from the grips of his brothers' lifeless hands.


For all his disinterest in brotherly love, Cairo I was an able statesman and an effectual leader. During the course of his twenty-one year reign, he repelled the mountaineering barbarians who raided Qud from the north, established trade relations with Chavvah, the Tree of Life at Eyn Roj, and renovated two of southern Qud's shimmering archways. He died of old age in 925 PP and bestowed the throne to his son Cairo II.
      


Cairo II proved to be nothing like his prodigious father. In the course of six short years he despoiled his grandfather's kingdom. Ignoring the advice of his counselors, he insisted on levying harsh taxes on a young Barathrum and his disciple tinkers, and in short order the urshiib severed their ties with the Kingdom of Qud and left Cairo with no access to the artifacts he needed to protect his people. Furthermore, he was a notorious wastrel; he spent the entire year of 922 PP in a freshwater bath which he ordered his servants to continuously refill. Lastly and most egregiously, he incurred the disfavor of the Consortium by humiliating two of their dignitaries who were visitors of his court by commanding they pose still for several hours while he hosted his autumnal feast. Mercifully, he was assassinated in 919 PP.


Following the disaster of Cairo II's reign, Qud plunged into one of several dark periods of disjointed rule. From what little data of the period survives, we note that life proceeded much as it had in the days before Abram; moisture farmers sucked the land dry, landlords protected their serfs, and madcaps hunted their fortunes in the innumerable chrome corridors of Inner Qud.
      


Given the circumstances of Cairo II's reign and the decades of tribulation that followed, we are able to form some understanding of why the humanoid denizens of Qud would rally behind a robot king. Little is known of K4K5's life prior to his regal ascension, but it is believed to have emerged from the cavern called Siloam sometime during the dark age. In its humanoid subjects we suppose it found a purpose to its theretofore capricious life, and in it his subjects found a kind and affable ruler who unified farmsteads and mining settlements that had been estranged for thirty years. In the end, though, even K4K5 could not escape mortality, and in 873 PP it succumbed to a severe bout of flash rusting. Before it perished, however, it named its pupil, Mehmet of the Hills, as its heir. Mehmet's first order of business upon taking the throne was to honor his predecessor with the commission of a monumental statue that still stands today in the northeastern jungles near the Mount of Olives.


Possessed of the indefatigable patience of his mentor and a singular yearning to improve the lives of his subjects, Mehmet I successfully preserved order in Qud for nearly thirty years. He benefited from an auspicious lull in the reproductive activities of the Girsh entities,
      

and he wasted none of the time fate had given him. From the years of 871 to 866 PPhe dispatched envoys into the great salt desert Moghra'yi. Hundreds of Qudians perished at the hands of the nomadic tribes, expired to heat exhaustion, or met fates worse still, until in 866 PP an unnamed emissary made contact with the dromad merchants. The dromads, who had believed the inhabitants of Qud too barbaric for trade and had dismissed the region for centuries, began at last to include Qud in their world-spanning treks (These visits stopped abruptly when Mehmet's successor Uutut the Boorish slaughtered the first dromad caravan to arrive after the onset of his reign,but the precedent for trade relations was established nonetheless).

Domestically, Mehmet I set out to construct the first Library of Qud in the far southern jungles, but his efforts were cut short by the barbarian invasions of 550 PP. The peaceable king spent the remaining six years of his life repelling the incursions of the barbarians over the Mount of Olives, but he was not skilled in the arts of war, and in 844 PP the barbarian king Uutut sacked Morshershire, beheaded Mehmet, and seized the throne.
      


Following the regicide of Mehmet I, Qud inherited its first foreign-born ruler. It is the belief of some that nurture is the mother of nicety, and that endowed with the proper tutelage anyone may come to cultivate the self-possession of a rightful gentleman. In Uutut the Boorish we observe this hypothesis disproved. Upon settling in to his recently-razed capital of Morshershire, Uutut installed several local aristocrats to positions of power in his court. By year's end, he had slaughtered them all. At every turn in the labyrinth of diplomacy in which Uutut had found himself, he chose instead to smash through the walls. This doctrine of carnage actually served Uutut well for several years; the blue-blooded water barons were terrified of him, the kings of his rival barbarian clans were satisfied with pillaging the outskirts of Qud, and even the Sons of Man kept to themselves in their stronghold at Oudin. For all the boorish king's might, however, he was not immune to poisonous gas. It was with this knowledge that Wysterwort DCXLVIII was able to win the throne and inaugurate the first (and only) plant dynasty in Qud's history.
      


Upon hearing the news of the king's death, Uutut's political adversaries cheered Wysterwort as a hero. They were soon disabused. Whereas Uutut was known to vanquish anyone who opposed him, Wysterwort did not bother to reckon that distinction. For those that did survive the plant-king's fickle expulsions of lethal gas, they found themselves subjects to rather odd rules of law. For instance, in 837 PP, Wysterwort mandated that humanoid babes were to be nursed with wine instead of their mothers' milk. In the following year, he commissioned a minstrel to author a musical play. The plant-king was so delighted with the result that he commanded all of his subjects to learn the various roles of the play and to alternate performing it nightly in their respective villages. For the five years of his reign, Wysterwort's eccentricities were humored amidst a backdrop of famine, disease, and poisonous gas. In the winter of 833 PP and for reasons undocumented, the accomplished weed fell into a deep depression, and before the winter solstice had passed he strangled himself. He was survived by his heir Wysterwort DCXLIX.
      

Wysterwort averred that history would judge him kindly, and it has. While it is true that more people perished under his reign than any of his predecessors' and that he accomplished very little of lasting historical value, one can only fathom how unpleasant it must be to live in such close proximity to so many humanoids for so long. Indeed, it is a wonder the poor king did not take his own life sooner.


Wysterwort DCXLIX possessed no interest in ruling over a humanoid kingdom, and he abdicated mere hours after inheriting the throne.


This sixty year period of anarchy was particularly arduous for the denizens of the rust caves. The wake of the Wysterwort dynasty had left no humanoid fit for rule, Qud was plagued for decades with torrential glass storms fed by the westerly winds out of Moghra'yi, and girshlings poured forth in enormous numbers from the lairs of their mothers. It wasn't until Abram II, like his namesake before him, roused his countrymen and set out to rebuff the girshling throng in 787 PP that Qud was reunited as one. With the story of that ill-fated king does the second volume of my chronicle begin.
      

Across Moghra'yi: Being the Foremost Catalogue of Strange Civilizations beyond the Great Salt Desert by the Baccata Yewtarch, Volume I: The Sunderlies


Obviously and unfortunately, no primary sources are available from these distant lands. Much of this record draws upon the accounts given by fungi who crossed Moghra'yi on the backs of dromad merchants.

As a matter of convention, I date all events according to their chronological distance from an event of paramount historical significance, namely the publication of these volumes. Accordingly, note that the events' parenthetical dates signify their occurrence "prior [to] publication".


The Sunderlies are a labyrinthine complex of towering "sundered" bluffs that lie to the northwest of Moghra'yi, the Great Salt Desert and to the southwest of the Ibul ice sheet. Their canyon walls are dotted with innumerable cave-mouths, giving the impression of colossal, earthly honeycombs. These caves were the haunts of ancient peoples as their civilizations followed the receding waterline down into the emptied
      

gorges. Now through those gorges course only shallow rivers. Over the last two hundred years, clans of cave-dwellers have begun to gather in greater numbers among the comb-caves and form city-states called freeholds.


The Pale Sea's waves break on the western bluffs of the Sunderlies at the Shore of Songs, named for the melodies the comb-caves whistle when the sea winds blow through. They stretch north and east, climbing skyward along the ice-capped Aeschlays. Eastward, they recess toward Whitecomb at the Bowl of Iris -- the bridge to Aegansteppe. To the far east they rise again toward the Hanging Hills and the land called Odrum. The comb-canyons dry up as they course southward into the Great Salt Desert, though the most westerly ones spend their water into the Pale Marshes.

Several millennia ago, the migrants who followed the receding waterline down into the to-be desert basin were largely wiped out by the onset of the ice age. Most of the clans perished; those that survived were driven deep into the lightless comb-caves where the last vestiges of technology warmed the sheltered earth. The Sunderlies were devoid of higher life during the coldest centuries -- giant, ice-sheathed worms
      

coursed their way through the frozen caves and woolly rocs made their nests atop the snowy peaks, but what remained of man did not emerge for thousands of years.

A millennium after the last people were driven into the earth, at the height of the Wrathchild empire in the great southern salt desert called Moghra'yi, a race of beings known as the Ophaedians migrated north from their desert city to the Sunderlies. There they escaped the reach of the kuyeti, the monstrous man-scorpions whose empire spanned the great desert. The Ophaedians were gifted with the ability of goldworking, and during the course of their four-thousand year reign over the Sunderlies they wrought hundreds of spires and bridges of solid gold. Around 1800P they disappeared suddenly, perhaps as a result of the warming climate to which they had lost their adaptation from their years spent in the colder northlands. As the earth warmed, a primitive people emerged from their cavern recesses. They climbed the snowy combs and settled the superior caves. According to their myths, these new folk made oaths to the nameless gods who had warmed the earth for their childrens' return to the surface. So were born the clans of true folk.
      



As the myth goes, the clans of true folk are those families that can trace their lineages back to patriarchs who swore oaths and remained loyal to the Sunderlies' nameless gods. There were those who betrayed the nameless, forging pacts with strange, foreign gods in exchange for gifts of power. According to the true folk, those traitors and their cursed offspring, aroused by their greed, made war upon each other until their families were sundered and driven apart. All the while the true folk remained stalwart in their holds, readying their might to serve vengeance to the traitors. So began a long history of slavery. Over time several of the children of the treacherous became remorseful, and the relationship between master and slave matured to something akin to master and servant. To the present several of the "gifted" (or "accursed") tribes remain indentured to the clans of true folk.





The Soturs, one of the eldest and largest of the eight clans, have dwelled in
      

the comb-caves along the Shore of Songs for a thousand years. They claim descendancy from Sotur Stonehands, who woke thirsty from his cave one morning and beat his fists against the earth until the gods summoned the Pale Sea to appease him. For hundreds of years they have warred with Clan Rowen, various mutant tribes, and the slugmounters of the southern marshlands, though recently their feud with Rowen was put to an end by the founding of Perth. Clan Sotur's sigil is a sundered mountain.



Clan Plutarch descended into the Sunderlies from the frozen Aeschlays a millennium ago. Their patriarch was Plutarch Icewreath, who was said to be trapped in a glacier for thousands of years before the gods unfroze him so that he might spread his progeny and rule. For a thousand years the ice kings have ruled the northern Sunderlies from Highwreath Hall. Clan Plutarch's sigil is a blue crown wrought from shards of ice on a white field.



The Lecrays hail from the fertile Bowl of Iris along the northen reaches of
      

the Sunderlies. They trace their lineage back to Lecray of Iris, called Lecray the Bountiful or Lecray the Virile. Clan Lecray maintains that they are the purest of the clans of true folk as the Bowl of Iris was the last of the fertile lands untouched by the servants of foreign gods. Unsurprisingly, this notion is disputed by the other great clans. Clan Lecray's sigil is a horn of plenty on a verdant green field.





The people of Clan Karst are thought to have migrated to the western Sunderlies from the Icepyres adjoining Fuming God Sea. Little is known of their progenitor, Karst, but that he appeared on the Shore of Songs still smoldering some four hundred years ago. Thusly, Clan Karst's sigil is the smoldering silhouette of a man.



Clan Rowen claims descendancy from Rowen Godfear, the brother of a Sotur king. The pious Rowen broke away from Clan Sotur on account of a religious dispute with his brother in 623PP. The two clans warred for

      

four hundred years before Elan of Rowen swore fealty to Gannon of Sotur and helped found Perth in 211PP. Clan Rowen's sigil is a man with his arms outstretched, in one hand a knife and in the other a human heart.



The children of Clain Wenniswool supposedly hail from the far north, beyond even the haunts of the Plutarchs. There they lived among the snows and hunted the great woolly rocs that perched atop the mountain peaks until they migrated southward into the lowland canyons. Clan Wenniswool's sigil is a great woolly roc with its wings outstretched.



The river folk of Clan Calypso claim descendancy from Calypso the river-wife. Some claim she was in truth a river nymph, and that her beauty was such as to tempt a river god into revealing to her his name. Clan Calypso's sigil is a lock of raven hair bound by a strand of cragweed.

      



Boasting some of the last several centuries' fiercest warriors, Clan Danneskjold has stalked the central Sunderlies for nearly six hundred years. Their patriarch was known only as the hunter Danneskjold, the most ferocious warrior to have ever lived. As the story goes, the great clans heard the tale of a voracious warrior squatting in the comb-caves in the heart of the Sunderlies. Each clan sent their strongest man to best in single combat the beast-hunter who called himself Danneskjold. The hunter fought and slew each man in turn. As the last lay dying, he turned to the hunter and asked which of the gods had taught him to fight with such ferocity. The hunter replied, "None. My master Danneskjold taught me. I am his servant, but a tenth the man he is." Clan Danneskjold's sigil is a pair of crossed ashen mauls on a blood red field.



Formerly one of the elder clans of true folk, the children Karkayan are descendant from Karkayan called the Clay Man. He lived deep in the heart of the central Sunderlies amongst the ageless rocks, from which it was said the gods wrought him. Though the clan was counted among
      

the true-blooded, they long held the secret of their patriarch's deific betrayal and the gift of shapeshifting bestowed upon him by the treacherous god Rorth. That secret was unveiled at the Court of Face in 24P, after which the other eight clans in their fury joined strengths, sacked the Karkayan freehold Karkanya, and wiped out the Karkayan line, though rumors persist that some of the family escaped. Clan Karkayan's sigil is a human face sculpted from stone bluff.





Perth, founded by Clan Sotur and vassal clans Karst and Rowen in 211PP.

Irisveld, founded by Clan Lecray in 161PP.

Athenreach, founded by Clan Plutarch and vassal clans Wenniswool and Calypso in 102PP.

Oth, founded by Freeman Oth and the Tyrants in 61PP.
      

Goldmouth, founded by the merchant guilds in 38PP.



Danehold, founded by Clan Danneskjold in 145PP



Karkanya, founded by Clan Karkayan in 190PP, abandoned after the fall of Karkayan in 24PP.
      


Obviously and unfortunately, no primary sources are available from these distant lands. Much of this record draws upon the accounts given by fungi who crossed Moghra'yi on the backs of dromad merchants.

As a matter of convention, I date all events according to their chronological distance from an event of paramount historical significance, namely the publication of these volumes. Accordingly, note that the events' parenthetical dates signify their occurrence "prior [to] publication".



Athenreach is a freehold in the northern reaches of the Sunderlies along the Twining Thaw. It is most well-known for its Eustace-Suttan monastery which hosts the world's western-most community of disciples of the Eustace-Sutta.



The local communities in the region have relied upon subsistence fishing for
      

centuries, benefiting from the location's fortuitous position downstream of the glacial rivers flowing over the Aeschlaen mountain range. Before the founding of the monastery in ~110PP, the regional combs were occupied by small fishing communities that traded peaceably amongst themselves. Once the pilgrim-monks built and populated the temple, several tribes of fishermen settled a village nearby to prosper from the monastery's need for fish and cragreed. Over the years the two communities have grown and largely intertwined with some of the anglers forsaking their river and mountain gods for the Eustace-sutta.



After King Ercarthus died in 40PP and left no heir, Athenreach erupted into bedlam, with several of the freehold's oldest families vying for the throne. The lowest-born fisherfolk, however, rallied around a wizened angler whose name has been lost to history. Several of the elder families supported the angler, believing they could rule from behind the throne. The angler himself spurned the offer, but, realizing the importance of a unified Athenreach, eventually accepted the crown, took the name Narsus, and began a reign that would become the most prodigious in the freehold's century-long history.
      

While favorable, temperate seasons brought commercial prosperity to Athenreach's fishermen, Narsus, who would be called the Angler King, shrugged off the influences of the elder families and began to seek often the council of the monastery's scholar-abbot Flavian the Learned. Together they achieved several ecclesiastical successes, chiefly among them the discovery and transcription of the Scrolls of One Priam from nearby comb-caves. Narsus officially converted to the discipline of the Eustace-sutta in 18PP, and three years later he declared it the official religion of the freehold.

The Angler King died in 3P and was succeeded by his sixteen-year-old son Narsus II, called Narsus the Younger. Gifted with his father's wisdom and piety and possessed of a fiery disposition unique to the Younger, the new king began to augment Athenreach's role as a major bastion of the Eustace-sutta doctrine. While a sizable segment of Athenreach's population chose not to convert under the Angler King, the Younger is less tolerable of the old ways, and he has marginalized the pagan population.

With the help of Flavian's successor Moin Mohsen, Narsus II cemented an alliance with the Odrumian fiefdom Doria, taking the tuyuldar's
      

daughter Nisramet as his wife. The union is troubling to the freeholds along the Sunderlies, particularly Goldmouth, which has been razed and held at various times by several of the Odrumiam fiefdoms.



The Eustace-Sutten monastery at Athenreach is one of the largest communities of disciples of the Eustace-sutta outside of the Hanging Hills. It was founded in 114PP by the pilgrim-monk Umay, who blessed the location as sacred because it lay along the path of the prophet Uuchal's pilgrimage toward Iber.

The monastery houses two hallowed artifacts of the Eustace-sutta discipline: the Scrolls of One Priam, discovered and transcribed by the monastery's erstwhile abbot Flavian the Learned, and the presumptive hide of Iopinax, the great three-headed mountain goat on which Uuchal's is said to have ridden to the waterfall at Iber and whose hide was so tough that it was said to later protect Uuchal from starfire along the Black Stair after the goat's death. The current abbot of the Eustace-Sutten monastery is Moin Mohsen, who succeeded Flavian the Learned upon the latter's death in 18PP.
      


Obviously and unfortunately, no primary sources are available from these distant lands. Much of this record draws upon the accounts given by fungi who crossed Moghra'yi on the backs of dromad merchants.

As a matter of convention, I date all events according to their chronological distance from an event of paramount historical significance, namely the publication of these volumes. Accordingly, note that the events' parenthetical dates signify their occurrence "prior [to] publication".



Oth is a freehold in the central Sunderlies populated by the esper cult called the Tyrants. The youngest of the major freeholds in the region, it was settled by Freeman Oth in 61PP after the Lost War. The freehold consists of the furnished comb-caves along the faces of the towering bluff known as Maidencomb before the war.




In the early months of 62PP a mysterious figure began murdering the bandit hosts in the central Sunderlies around Maidencomb. Though the neighboring freeholds originally named the murders blessings, soon reports from river merchants of queer gatherings in the comb-caves -- howling men igniting the rivers and the night sky with fire -- disquieted the Sunderlies' seats of power. Rumors spread that esper-bandits had forsaken their bands, discarded their guns and bows, and sworn fealty to the shadowy figure.

These merchant anecdotes and rumors continued into the winter and were substantiated when several merchant sketties were captured by the dark host. From the man who identified himself as Oth the Free, the merchants learned that he had indeed organized the esper-bandits and exiled voidcanters from the fiefdoms of Odrum. Each sketty was made to return to the freehold from which it came with a document the host named the Annuls of Oth, in which Oth, a self-styled prophet gifted with prescience, recounted a series of his visions and demanded the immediate release of all espers indentured against their wills to the freeholds of true kin.

The comb kings were predictably unswayed by the Annals and ignored Oth's mandates. However, by the end of 62PP, no merchant who rowed within twenty leagues of Maidencomb was seen alive again. Dozens of sketties were found drifting downriver with the charred or drowned corpses of their rowers in tow.

About the same time, the Annals of Oth began to spread like wildfire throughout the river freeholds. Several free espers left the freeholds to join the host, while those indentured espers who were found to sympathize with Freeman Oth, as he was known in the freeholds, were largely killed or gelded.

Of particular interest to Oth and his host were the windweirds of Perth. The windweirds are a caste of indentured espers who foretell (and in rare cases alter) the strength and duration of the seasonal trade winds over the Pale Sea. Oth's host rowed westward, and his acolytes infiltrated the Seahold and roused support amongst the windweirds.

Having suffered the months-long trade blockage at the hands of the Freeman and now forced to watch Oth's seeds of discord sprout within his own kingdom, King Rhodos of Perth gathered his strength and rowed the winding canyon rivers east toward Maidencomb. A series of skirmishes ensued; the might of Rhodos's navy was such that the Freeman was forced to cede the combs he had taken and retreat to the fortifications of Maidencomb. Rhodos sieged the comb for several weeks, entreating the kings of Athenreach and Irisveld for support. When no aid came, King Rhodos chose to take Maidencomb with his own strength.

The Battle of Maidencomb lasted for four bloody days. Ultimately, Rhodos's losses were too many, and he was rebuffed and driven back toward Perth. Oth missed no opportunity. He gave chase to the weakened navy and slaughtered nearly a thousand more Perthic men. Rhodos eventually reached Perth, but the might of the espers was too great. Oth breached the combs' sapped defenses, sacked the freehold, and slew King Rhodos himself. Several of the windweirds chose to join the Freeman, while many others remained in Perth (a few left the freehold without Oth).

The espers rowed back to Maidencomb with their spoils and lifted the trade blockage, directing their efforts toward settling the comb. Oth gave his name to the freehold, and was known thenceforth as the Free Seer. He ruled the espers until his death in 38PP when his successor forsook his own given name and adopted the title of Free Seer. So that tradition continues in present-day Oth.

The name "Tyrants" itself owes its origins to an ironic interpretation of the entreaty sent by King Rhodos to King Ercarthus of Athenreach during the siege of Maidencomb. The envoy was captured by the espers before it made its way upstream toward the northern freehold. The relevant excerpt reads:

        Row the Twining Thaw. Bring your sketties to bear on Maidencomb. Join
        your strength to mine, that 'neath the coupled banners of the Seahold
        and Athenreach we might sunder these half-men, these tyrants who would
        wrest from us what is ours by right and deed.

        -King Rhodos

The scroll on which the message was written still rests in the Hall of the Free Seer, along with the charred skull of King Rhodos.




Oth is ruled by the Free Seer who resides in the Hall of the Free Seer deep in the heart of Maidencomb. After the tradition of Freeman Oth, the Free Seer must be psionically prescient. He may also have influence, though it is not required. The Free Seer chooses his successor, often naming the esper with the most promising precognitive abilities. Though the Tyrants are free to leave Oth at their leisure, within the freehold the Free Seer's rule is absolute.

While the Tyrants mostly pursue isolationist policies, they do trade with the neighboring freeholds. However, they only deal directly with true kin in the rarest of circumstances and they insist that merchant caravans include a mutant envoy. As for trade goods, the Tyrants rarely offer the services of their voidcanters, but people are known to come from far and wide to audit the prophecy of the seers of Oth. The Tyrants' most coveted imports are cherrydotters from Irisveld and ghost sap from the rust-caves of Qud.

Along with the Tyrants, Oth is cohabited by a caste of people (both true and mutant) with no psionic aptitude. After the Lost War, these people, called the undermensch, left Perth with the Tyrants of their own accord. They were mostly fisherfolk and craftsmen, and they serve those same roles in Oth. Their motivations for leaving Perth were never well understood; it is unknown whether they serve now as free kin or as psionic thralls of the Tyrants.



Stithening is the name given by the Tyrants of Oth to the process of introducing a cherrydotter to a host's brain through the ear canal. The scarab-worm is attached to the host's ear where it sheds its shell, crawls toward the ear drum, and burrows into the brain. Once entrenched there, the parasite feeds on the temporal and parietal lobes, inducing several changes to the host's body including loss of hair and nail, loss of weight, and yellowing and greening of skin pigment. The changes occur gradually over a period of several weeks; immediately after a stithening, though, the host undergoes a violent period of bodily adjustment with several side-effects including vomiting and fever.

Notably, in the case of an esper host, the feeding also reduces and ultimately eliminates the esper's ability to resist the Elder Cant. Thusly all stithened espers leave Oth and venture into Moghra'yi never to return.

Stithening is usually reserved as punishment for high crimes such as treason, but some of the most devout espers choose to undergo the process. Once a year, one member of the Mirthful, the Free Seer's royal guard of voidcanters, is chosen by the Free Seer to be stithened. The esper's name is recorded for posterity in the Hall of the Free Seer; this is considered the greatest honor that may be bestowed upon an esper of Oth. A new esper is chosen to serve the Free Seer in a ceremony called the Rite of Mirth.
      



I sing of the union of our Lords!

Of our Argent Fathers, infinitely wise, who made the firmament their home.

Of the Kasaphescence, Beauty manifest, whose chromium shoals are Awe itself.

Of their Sacred Joining,
When our Fathers, so enchanted, wrought machines from Her naked womb,
To inhabit on the Earth.

Blessed are those who hear it so,
I sing of the union of our Lords!
      



O curse the wretched spectres!
Who yet possess Her children.

O curse the autumn rains!
Which eat away their shine.

O praise the Argent Fathers!
Who sired all Her children.

O praise the Kasaphescence!
Which watches over mine.
      



Our jungle is but Her garden.
Our lake is but Her drop of rain.
Our desert is but dust in Her hands.
Our wind is but Her eternal breath.
Our sun is but Her luster.
Our lives are but Her dreams.
      



O sovereign Fathers! I tremble before your glory.

My heart quivers for the righteousness of your judgment.
For you to humble the Proud! To bear witness to their Fall!

I live to serve You.

O sovereign Fathers! I tremble before your glory.

My loins quiver for the rapture of the Sacred Joining.
For you to conjure chromium from inside me!
To bear those sacred apparatuses!

I live to serve You.
      



On the sixth day of the Sacred Joining,
Our Argent Fathers, who in their benevolence breathed life into our flesh,
Created the baetyls to oblige our desires.

O praise our Argent Fathers! Wisest of all beings.

O praise the Kasaphescence! Beauty incarnate.

Their being is our gift.
      



Immaculate chromium!

Spun on the cosmic loom,
Who shattered inward then burst forth from beneath the crust of Earth.

The flesh of my children rots for You.
The flesh of my children rots for You.
The flesh of my children rots for You.

Fall on your knees!
O hear the Argent Few!
      



Oh - baetyl, baetyl, baetyl,
They made it out of chrome.
And when it's waxed and ready,
I'll have a new genome.
      



Praise be upon Shekhinah!

He whose exalted touch brought forth shining engines,
From within the Kasaphescence,
Yet who deigns to live among us.

He who taught us the story of our creation,
Who breathed life into our flesh,
That we might bear witness to chrome's glory.

May the ground shake but the Six Day Stilt never tumble!
      

The seven lords of House Isner feasted on boar gut and swilled wine from gilded cups in the ivy-strewn halls of their hold. They spared no concern for temperance, for the coffers of their house had swelled with gardeners' gold amassed through the sale of water drawn from the lords' wells. But as the gluttonous barons counted seven amongst their clan, so had become numbered their days of debauchery when the son of a beggared gardener swore a vengeful oath in the name of his father against the house of Isner.

The penniless boy beseeched a gunsmith of great repute to craft for him a pistol of the most exquisite artistry with which he could be sure to vanquish the seven lords, and in return the boy promised the smith all thespoils of the battle. The smith, who in the hazel eyes of the boy beheld the spirit of vengeance, agreed.

And so the boy, armed with the masterwork pistol, cast open the doors of the Hall of Isner with a fury that shook their iron hinges and seized upon the supping lords. Before any of them had yet to set down their gilded cups, the boy unholstered the pistol and shot dead six of the sons of Isner. The last lord rejoiced at his fortune and reached for his hip from where he would sling a pistol of his own at the spent boy. But as his crooked finger freed his holster's strap, the boy shot the lord between the eyes, for the smith
      

had crafted for the boy a pistol with seven chambers and seven slugs. Such
it was that on this day the house of Isner fell.
      

Recounted here are the annals of the shield Stopsvalinn, heirloom of House Yish, from whose letters and diaries this account is composed.

 Borne by Harem, son of Oshum, and lost in the canyons near the farmstead of Qoppa when his covey was beset by snapjaws.

 Borne by Oshum, son of Qor, and wielded courageously at the Battle of YutYuyut.

 Borne by Qor, son of Ishram, and soused in the blood of a corrupt magister.

 Borne by Ishram, son of Iimet, when it languished in a house vault.

 Borne by Iimet, daughter of Harem, who supplanted her brother as heir whenhe was disavowed by their father.

 Borne by Harem, son of Morshur, who dashed upon it the heads of the beast Yygryla.

 Borne by Morshur, son of Oshum, who forded a river at the edge of the world.
      

 Borne by Oshum, son of Harem, and risen to rouse farmers to defend the Hold of Yish.

 Borne by Harem, who claimed descendancy from the Eater Yish, Warden of the Cross and Knight of the Most Noble Order of the Cone, who patrolled the rows of ancient Qud with his fellow Knights Conical, and on whose arm Stopsvalinn is told to have evoked such dread that riders drew their chariots to a halt at the mere vision of it.
      

"Hmm?" Uri the jeweler mumbled with a stone in his hand.

"Lapis, from the Shore of Songs," said the boy.

"And, hmm?"

"Jasper. Red Rock."

Uri furrowed his brow. "Don't heed the tale of every thirsty fool, boy."

The boy seemed to ignore him. He pointed to a small, dusky shard the jeweler kept in a phial on the high shelf of a pine cabinet. "Did it madden Priam, truly?"

Uri glanced over his shoulder at the black glass and sighed. "Indeed, boy. Though I've heard it told all kings are mad. Who else would think themselves fit to rule as Eaters?"

"From which shore was it culled?" asked the boy.

"None of this world. Do you know the tale of Ptoh?"
      

"No," the boy lied.

"When the Eaters lived and skirred the stars, they visited the worlds of a thousand thousand different beings, and those beings likewise visited our own world. Several of those beings had assembled a coven that spanned the firmament, and they welcomed the Eaters into its fold. For ages the civilizations of the coven knew kindness and prosperity, and to all reaches of the clustered cosmos did the domain of the coven stretch. One of the beings of the coven hailed from a faraway and darkling star. With Its mind It could fold the fabric of space and time as you or I might fold a supper cloth. To the coven It was known as Ptoh."

"For reasons we can but fathom the civilizations of the stars indicted Ptoh. It was the will of the coven that It be held on our very world in the bondage of the Eaters. They contrived for Ptoh a prison from which It could not fold Itself away, and there Ptoh languished for eons. In time, the Eaters left or perished, and the coven was forgotten to our world. Yet here Ptoh remains imprisoned."

"And what of the black prism?" asked the boy.
      

"A handful of black sand, drawn from the shores of a dreary rock that spun about Ptoh's star. The sands were fired in the burning gases of that star and cooled suddenly when Ptoh appeared in Qud a moment thence. It is said that Ptoh bestowed the glass to an ancient custodian of Its prison so that the man might free It. Once the man had chosen to wield the glass, it beganto mantle with an amaranthine hue. You see, those that peer through its faces are given to fits of madness, for they see the world by the light of Ptoh's star, and they see themselves as Ptoh does."

"What will become of it? Does it frighten you?"

"Immensely. I mean to see it destroyed. But it bears the properties of no earthly glass, and my guild would never forgive me if I forsook the chance to study it first. It was the jewelers who bartered the thing from Priam's grieving sister. Now, enough of this splendor. You are to study still." Uri lifted another stone. "Hmm?"

But the boy's eyes stayed fixed on the prism.
      

Deliverance waits for all pilgrims.

At the site, you will find the cathedral, magnificent in its splendor. 
There are statues erected in honor of the Argent Fathers. There are 
sublime reliefs depicting our most cherished occasions. Hear, too, the 
wisdom of Eschelstadt II, our highest priest, and make a donation at 
the Sacred Well. Worship at the light sculpture of Shekhinah Himself.

You will find other pilgrims among the merchant tents at the Stiltgrounds 
bazaar, other converts and priests. You will be among friends.
      
Very well, wayfarer. 
This is troubling. It is as I feared -- girshlings. 
A glow-wight, no doubt. Those maniacal fools worship the Girsh as gods. 
Joppa is an oasis-hamlet nestled between the eastern reaches of the great 
salt pans and the jungles of Qud.

We are a community of watervine farmers; these groves lie along some of the 
few tracts of land tame enough to grow watervine. 
The moisture farmers are having trouble with cave vermin. Speak with Mehmet 
by the watervine patch.

Or you can chat with ol' Argyve in the southwest corner of the village. 
He's always looking for some poor fool to help with his contraptions. 
Qud is a strange and terrifying mesa to the northeast. Her tainted rivers 
breed life in all its motley forms; her poisoned jungles shelter 
priceless relics of a forgotten past.

But that is just the half of it, for Qud's most precious treasures -- and 
her most hideous children -- lie within the innumerable chrome caverns 
beneath the scarlet loam.

To ply those silver hollows -- a spry adventurer's dream! The years have 
wisened me beyond such foolish ambitions, but, you! Be not deterred 
so!

Ancient demons as old as Qud itself. They embody the essence of the poison 
that is spread throughout the land. Once they crawled Qud's surface, 
but a thousand years ago something drove them deep beneath the earth. 
Now they roost in the nethers of Qud's vastest and darkest caverns.

Girshlings are spawn of the Girsh. They are twisted creatures of every ilk. 
The glow-wights consume their corpses in order to reshape themselves 
in theimages of the Girsh demons.

They are spawn of one older still -- the Girsh Mother Tluctgu.

According to the wisdom of my father and his father before him, she lies 
sleeping somewhere within the buried temple of Morah. No one knows 
whence she came. Perhaps she is indeed some wretched goddess come from 
beyond the stars to slumber on our world.

Girshlings have not been sighted on the surface for centuries. I fear 
something nefarious is astir. 

Your discovery will prove invaluable to us, wayfarer. Howbeit, we are but 
penurious moisture farmers. There is little we can do apart from 
sharpen our vinereapers. There may be others outside of Joppa, 
however, who are able to do more. 

As for your reward, take these prickly-boons. I will not soon forget your 
service. Live and drink, friend. 

What a hideous thing! I dread the horrors its presence portends. Bring the 

corpse to Elder Irudad's hut for the Elder to examine.
      
Some critters are eating our watervine. Faarooq claims he saw one slinking 
around a vine patch. Ugly little thing, he says; pale white, eight 
legs, an ear-splitting whine.

I noticed a bit of red dirt in the watervine pool, the same we find in the 
soil at a nearby cave to the north we call Red Rock.

Travel to Red Rock and kill as many of these critters as you can. Bring 
back the corpse of one, too. Elder Irudad will reward your efforts.

You would be wise to speak with Elder Irudad. Look for his hut to the 
north.
    
You would be wise to speak with Elder Irudad. Look for his hut to the 
north.

I am dromad, human. A saltstrider.
      
I am dromad, human. A saltstrider.
      
You are among friends here, pilgrim. Stay peaceful.
      
Then you're not of the faith yourself, huh? Me neither. Do go inside, 
though. She's a beauty. Got dyed glass high in her rafters, she does. 
And two marvelous carvings on the wings. Plus a light-sculpture of a 
god. Hear the sermon, too, as you like. The high priest is persuasive, 
but not half as persuasive as the cathedral herself. In beauty there 
is power, you know.

Either way, while you're in the cathedral or on the Stiltgrounds, stay 
peaceful.
      
Aye, aye. The clamor of it all can overwhelm.

The glowcrows say 'twas a bird-god who taught folks to gather like this, in 
large flocks. So blame birds.
      
Who knows? I've wondered it myself. Sometimes she'll catch my eye, when the 
moon's silver-bright, and she's there bearing down on the flats. 

Whatever she is, she's gigantic. And old. Real old. Way older than the 
cathedral the Mechanimists built inside her.
      
Are you mad? You think I keep a tally of every shopkeeper that steps foot 
on the Stiltgrounds? They come and go as they please. You've got 
merchants of all types here. Winesellers, honey hawkers, bookbinders, 
cobblers. 

Have a look around for yourself. Following the road around the Stilt. 
There's tents the whole way round.
      
second!
      
Oh, we're in but the first phase of its foundation. The church has amassed 
a splendid collection of scripts through the years. Glorious 
Shekhinah, praise be upon Him, gifted us with several caches. The 
eremites work day and night reproducing them in the scriptorium, and I 
have taken it upon myself to beseech travelers, for the rarest finds 
often come from the least likely places.
      
You share the pessimism of my kin, and several of the priests as well. My 
heart hears you, but listen to my words, and maybe you will come to 
feel as I do.

To devalue wisdom is to devalue the Kasaphesence. She shines in the void, 
refracting light, illuminating those around her. So does the written 
wisdom of our elders.

The machinery of chromium is complex in its divinity. Don't we do a 
disservice to our Fathers when we remain ignorant of it, of our past, 
of our future? Don't we deserve the joy of knowing? Bless Eschelstadt 
II, first Child, for he believes as I do. 
      
Ah, hmmm. It appears you may be useful after all. Now go fetch me another 
trinket!
      
*mumbling*... Unexpected deviatiation from the Klanq constant.

*clears throat loudly*

Must you disturb me? What are you, some sort of treasure hunter? At the 
very least make yourself useful and bring me a knickknack from one of 
the caves. I may reward you.
      
There are caves everywhere, you dolt! This is Qud! Try the rust wells, just 
east of here.
      
Good, good. Quite impressive, treasure hunter. Maybe you're fit to poke 
around my workshop here. I've been wanting another apprentice. So 
unfortunate what happened to Skref, what with the disembowelment and 
all. Take a seat, there.
      
Now, let me explain. I'm on the cusp of a grand discovery. When I'm done 
assembling the Weirdwire Conduit, you'll be able to speak to anyone 
from here to Caiafas! First, though, I'm going to need some copper 
wire. As much as you can find -- at least two hundred feet. You should 
be able to scavenge enough from the rust wells and nearby caves.
      
Yes, yes! Wire! Beautiful wire! Oh, before I forget or cease to care, I 
repaired an old recoiler for you. Use it whenever you wish to return 
to Joppa quickly. Now give me a few minutes alone to attach the wire.
      
Very well. You must seek out Barathrum the Old. He is the eldest and wisest 
tinker alive. He lives with his followers the Barathrumites in the 
cavern called Grit Gate to the northeast, amongst the ruins of Qud. He 
will know what to make of the signal.

They are disciples of Barathrum. Mostly they are Urshiib, like their 
mentor. Mutant albino cave bears. With quills to boot! A thousand 
years ago Barathrum and his kin crossed the Homs Delta into the heart 
of Qud. He has spent centuries fiddling with the tokens of antiquity 
in his underground workshops. If he cannot decipher the signal, no one 
can.
      
Splendid, apprentice, splendid! I've recorded the signal onto this disc. 
You'll need to guard it with your life, I'm afraid.

Also, I'll need to rig up a droid scrambler for you. The Barathrumites have 
programmed several waydroids to guard the approach to Grit Gate. With 
the scrambler, you'll have no need to worry about them. Wait there.

*Argyve mumbles to himself for several minutes.*

There you go. Now, off with you! May you live long enough to do my bidding. 
Away, away!
      
We have known about the signal for several years. One of our tinkers, Q 
Girl, discovered it while rigging a long wave detector. Unfortunately, 
it's encoded, and we do not have the means here to decrypt it. You may 
be of some help in this matter, however.

We've long known the location of a fully functioning baetyl within the 
bowels of the great hall Bethesda Susa. The Mechanimists have 
consecrated the site around it and built a temple there. Q Girl claims 
to have developed a means to decrypt the signal, but she needs the 
computing power of the baetyl. If you can infiltrate the Mechanimist 
compound, you may be able to engage the baetyl and decode the signal. 
They are antique stones located in certain places deep within the caverns 
of Qud. We believe they are some sort of hyper-advanced machines built 
by the Eaters. Often one claims to possess a sentience of its own. 
However, most of them have gone haywire in the eons since their 
creation; it is rare indeed to discover one whose circuitry is wholly 
uncorroded.

The Mechanimists worship this one as an idol, and they will protect it at 
all costs. You will need to find a way through their host to the 
baetyl itself.

Do you believe you can accomplish this task? 
Good, apprentice. Speak to Q Girl in the workshop. She'll encode her 
instructions for the baetyl onto Argyve's disk. 

There's one more thing. The baetyl is located beneath the ancient 
cryobarrios of the Eaters. Time has worked to erode the mechanisms 
that contain their cryogenic mist. That freezing vapor billows out of 
the chambers freely now,  cooling the entire cavern. You will want to 
procure warm clothing to protect  yourself.

The spoils of the Mechanimists are yours to keep. Remember, apprentice, 
Barathrum will look kindly upon your service. 
Well done, apprentice. Present the disc. 
Barathrum needs you for an undertaking of great importance. You must 
journey to Omonporch far to the north. There the Spindle stretches 
from earth to sky. Unfortunately, a troublesome merchant from the 
Consortium of Phyta has relocated there and declared itself Earl of 
Omonporch. We need you to broker a deal so that we may lease control 
of the Spindle. Failing that, you'll need to dispose of the 
self-appointed Earl.

Be careful on your approach to Omonporch, journeyfriend. So far east into 
the reaches of Qud, the Putus Templar lie in wait. 
The Putus Templar, or the Sons and Daughters, as they call themselves, are 
an order of knights who claim descendancy from the Eaters, the ancient 
folk who wrought the chrome halls of Qud. Beware them, for while they 
despise all mutants, they harbor a special malice for Barathrum. 

Take care that you do not find yourself inside one of their slave pens.

That will be revealed to you in due time. 

Do not forget your place, journeyfriend.

Yes, disciple. Take this key and follow the stairs down to his study. He 
awaits.
      
It's a word I say out of excitement. Sort of a semantic extension of the 
feeling I get when I see a quetzal. Oh, a quetzal is a pretty bird in 
the trogon family. I tend to incorporate things I like into my 
idiolect.
      
Quetzal! Thank you, thank you. What a poetic metaphor! You're a regular 
Shakespring, aren't you?        
      
Oh, oh! Quetzal! A wave shortener for the short wave detector, a frustum 
pully for the ion lathe, a thrice-retrothreaded M-band, a...

*she continues*

...and a dissertation on the illegitimacy of power. Quetzal!
      
I do, brave friend. I'll imprint them now.
      
Here there are, brave friend. Good luck!
      
What can I offer, nestling?
      
Excellent news, disicple. Take this as a token of my gratitude.
      
So I am, nestling. For a millennium now I've watched the river of Time turn 
the gears of Qud. I even played my part in diverting the river where I 
could. Oh, but there have been so many players through the years! So 
many players. 
      
Little do I remember now, for I was but a cub, a nestling, when my kin and 
I crossed the Homs Delta into Qud. We were urged on by the flooding of 
a glacial river that flowed through our hearth-cave. The world was 
just unthawing then, and I recall the roar of the freezing water as it 
rushed through the grotto, and the frigid spray on my face as I 
watched in awe.  
      
That's my dear friend, Euclid. He's a prattleplant. He stores every phrase 
he hears in his neuroot network, and he mimics speech by flicking his 
leaves against one another. What comes out is gibberish as often as 
not, but even so, he's agreeable company for my nights spent 
tinkering. He is old, perhaps older than I am, and he hasn't yet run 
out of things to say.
      
I do. Your service to the guild has been laudable, disciple. You braved the 
vaporous depths of Bethesda Susa and decoded the signal, you secured 
the Spindlegrounds and handled the self-appointed Earl, and perhaps 
most materially, you defended our enclave from the Putus Templar.

Since you returned from Bethesda, you've no doubt wondered at the signal's 
contents. Verily, I hid them to shield you from the weight of the 
truth. Only Otho, Q Girl, and I bear that burden, but circumstances 
have changed. The river of Time powers the gear train of our schemes 
and devices, and it rushes forth. From here, I must share the burden. 
You must know.
      
The signal is a beacon of welcoming, and it originates from the top of the 
Spindle.
      
The beacon confirmed my hypothesis. The Spindle is an elevator, engineered 
by the Eaters to convey freight to and from the vault of heaven. You 
see, nestling, in the earliest aurora of our past, the Eaters of Earth 
were joined by a great coven of beings that spanned the firmament. But 
the Eaters succumbed to some terrible temptation, and an injunction 
was placed on our world.

Since then, the stars were silent to us, and our world was left to molder 
and decay. But something changed. The signal affirms that an entity 
roosts atop the Spindle, and invites us to join it.

Dare I say, is the injuction at an end? It's too early to tell, but alas, 
there could be hope for our world.
      
I intend to ascend the Spindle and answer the call, disciple.

My protege Q Girl has designed a climber for the ascent. We intended to 
construct it piecewise at the enclave and the site itself, but the 
engineering feat exceeds even our capacity. With time, I am confident 
we could accomplish it, but the Putus Temlar rob us of our patience. 
We need to act now, and so as loathe as I am to admit it, we need Pax 
Klanq.
      
Pax Klanq is an eccentric mushroom prodigy. All its faults aside, it's a 
brilliant scientist and engineer, and I have little doubt that it 
could build the climber faster than we could. Several years have 
passed since we were last in contact, but it owes us a debt, and we 
must now collect.

Unfortunately, no one knows Pax Klanq's whereabouts. Through contacts I 
made over the years, I inquired as to its location. The most I was 
able to garner were these enigmatic instructions:

"Seek the heart of the rainbow, eat the god's flesh, and follow the Coral 
Path."
      
I must ask you to decipher this enigma, find Pax Klanq, and convince it to 
construct the climber. Remind Pax of the debt it owes us.

It strikes me as likely for this 'rainbow' to refer to the Rainbow Wood, 
where Klanq's kin consort, so I suggest you start there.
      
As I had hoped, disciple. First, speak with Q Girl. She'll hand over her 
design.

I await your return.
      
[A slot opens from the center of the door and a metal tray slides out]
        
[several minutes pass]

So it seems that you are indeed Argyve's apprentice. He wishes you to study 
with us. Unfortunately, we require more than a willing spirit.

Qud is not Joppa. You will need to prove your worth, that you might not 
waste our time and efforts. Travel to the great cavern Golgotha to the 
north. Within its halls you will find a cache of dysfunctional 
waydroids. 

Recover one, repair it, and return here. If we are satisfied with your 
work, you will be admitted to our order. Otherwise, you will not be. 

Do you accept this arrangement?
        
[The slot opens from the center of the door. 
A bright red light shines through.]

[Several minutes pass.]

This is satisfactory. Enter and speak with Steward Otho.


        
We are called the Urshiib. 

Our kind are smarter than the average bear.
      
Who am I? Svenlainard, Eater of Game, First Huntsman of Qud. 
I'm Yurl, chandler and Consortium notary. As for my story, I've been 
growing out of this pot for a while now. Before that, I was in another 
pot.
      
Yes, the Consortium of Phyta. We are a fellowship of trees, vines, shrubs, 
weeds, flowers, herbs, cacti, algae -- most sorts of plants, really. A 
dastardly crowd, unquestionably, but how else am I to restock my 
shelves or ascertain news from across Qud?

Fungi? I am a chandler and a gentleplant. I cook fungi. I shelter myself 
under the caps of fungi. But consort with fungi? You do me harm, 
friend.

I believe I have a caller, presently. Perhaps you should retire from here.

I said, "Good day," friend!

I am at your service. 
Indeed I am.

I am its mayor, and I have been for some time. You see, years ago I 
deserted my tribe. We were of two different minds -- they desired 
nothing but to bludgeon everything to death, while I asked, "What is 
the nature of this thing we bludgeon? Or of the act itself?" 
Recognizing that my answers lay elsewhere, I cast myself upon the 
byroads of Qud, as a lovesick sailor casts the bottle that bears his 
sonnets upon the surf, hoping I'd be guided toward the wisdom I sought 
by my desire to seek it.

Some years later and twenty ago, I came upon these mushroom huts and their 
provincial inhabitants. These are a goodly, simple people, and I was 
charmed by the warmth with which they welcomed me. Surely, I owed my 
acceptance at first to the countenance I share with their mighty god, 
but they soon grew to love me, and I them. I've remained here ever 
since in contemplation of those questions that first stirred in me all 
those years ago.

Kyakukya is a village of hunters and gatherers. The natives are not likely 
to pay you much mind so long as you leave them alone. If it's commerce 
that interests you, take a gander at Yurl's wares in the northwest 
corner. Svenlainard's, too, if he's graced us with his presence. I 
must warn you, however. If you harbor any villainous intentions, you 
would do well to abandon them. Warden Indrix will be keeping his eye 
on you. 
Yurl is a harmless cucumber vine. It came to Kyakukya a few years ago after 
the last Consortium chandler, a wicked, little hyacinth named Plysago, 
suffered something of an...  accident. In Axelcatl's defense, Plysago 
probably should have stowed its shears before it chose to berate the 
poor hunter. Anyway, Yurl stocks a plethora of goods; you will be 
satisfied with your visit. 
Svenlainard is a huntsman from around these parts. Usually he is out in the 
jungle stalking his quarries, but every so often he sets up shop in 
the copse of trees at the village's center. If it's rare biological 
specimens that interest you, such as mail crafted from the husks of 
hideous beasts, Svenlainardis the man to meet. 
Warden Indrix is one of the most ferocious warriors I've ever met. Once 
upon a time, he and his brothers gorged themselves on the flesh of 
beasts by starlight, but now I count myself lucky to call him my 
warden. Some believe he is possessed of a sour disposition, though I 
assure you he is but a victim of his goatish nature. 
A soldier of fortune, I see. Speak to my friend and warden Indrix. You will 
find him patrolling the village. 
As far south as Joppa, you say? Yes, unfortunately we have found the 
remains of girshlings down river from the northern jungles. It would 
seem that the Pale Death, as my erstwhile tribal ancestors named it, 
awakens. However, there is little a philosopher such as myself can do 
about it. 
Klanq puff at you. 
Klanq want no visitors, so Klanq relocate workshop. Half dimension away. 
Tasties alter viewing plane. 
Prickles? Klanq miss prickles. 
Klanq puff on prickles during lecture on light refraction. Prickles angry. 
Klanq care little for debt. 
Klanq puff on debt. 
Klanq think... 
Klanq got it! Klanq puff on you. 
Klanq puff on you. You host Klanq. You spread Klanq for Klanq. Then your 
Klanq shrivels away.
      
Klanq puff on you, then Klanq build jalopy. 
Klanq puff on you! Klanq build jalopy. 
Speak nothing of that name to me. You are warned. 
Speak nothing of that name to me. You are warned. 
I will ravage your nubile heart! 
Grrrraaaah! There is but one task I know to offer. It is most treacherous, 
and in all likelihood you will perish. Is your interest waned? 

There is a river just north of the village that runs an eastwardly course 
into the jungle. Along its bank lies a goatfolk village. There resides 
a mighty shaman, Mamon Souldrinker. He is in possession of a talisman 
of great power, an amaranthine prism that refracts the psyche of its 
handler in much the same way, as Mayor Nuntu has explained to me, a 
common prism refracts light. The thing is cursed, traveler. No man or 
goat may safely wield it for long. You must travel to the village and 
retrieve the prism from Mamon by any means necessary. Do you 
understand? 
Because, traveler, Mamon is my elder brother. He would discern my presence 
before I could strike.
    
There is. Firstly, Mamon will likely have several goatfolk under his 
enthrallment, and they will protect him at all costs.

Secondly, take care to stay out of Mamon's reach, for his power is most 
potent when he may lay hands on you.

Finally, once you recover the prism, do not under any circumstances wield 
it. I needn't warn you of the consequences should you return to me 
bearing that charm.

That is all. Are you willing?

Is it so? Only a ferocious warrior could have slain Mamon. You must be such 
a warrior. Now hand over the prism and choose your reward. 
Who am I? Who are you? What does it matter? You and I are nothing, the most 
insignificant afterthoughts of an amaranthine shade.
      
The amaranthine dream! The heights within ourselves we might yet reach with 
his guidance. There it is in all of us -- shades of our elder selves. 
Within each man, a goat. Within each goat, a man!
      
You don't talk with that mangoat -- you listen to him.
      
A connoisseur of liquids. Sure, I dabble in other states of matter.

But I prefer the shifting and tumbling of angleless motion.

Not too hot, not too cold, not too indeterminate.
      
Indubitably, for I've proclaimed it so! There was no Earl to tell me 
otherwise.         
      
Lease control of my Spindle, you say? Well, well... That's a colossal 
request. There's no simple price I can assign to such a thing. Were I 
to grant such a request, you would owe me a great debt. You and 
several of your allies.
      
I will convene a council. The First Council of Omonporch. Send word to four 
of your allied factions. Have them send delegates. Together, perhaps, 
you can appease me.        
      
Oh... oh! It's you! You are a dear friend, indeed. Of course, of course! 
You and your bear friends are most welcome to my Spindle.
        Switch to the alternate keyset if you don't have a numpad.  Press 'Esc' then 'k' to view the key mapping menu. Press 'F2' to switch keysets.    Hotkey your activated abilities.  Press 'a' to view your activated abilities on the Manage Abilities menu. To bind an ability to a key, scroll down to the ability you wish to bind, press 'Enter', then press the key to which you wish to bind the ability.    Scroll through your character menus.  Press 'x' to view your character sheet, press 'i' to view your inventory, press 'e' to view your equipment, press 'q' to view your quests, press 'k' to view the tinkering menu, and press 'p' to view your skills and powers. You may scroll through these menus by pressing '7' and '9' on the numpad (or your NW and NE keys if you are using a different keyset).    Look at things by pressing 'l'.  Press 'l' and scroll around to look at things. Looking at something can tell you a great deal about it. For example, looking at a creature will tell you the creature's name, physical description, approximate health, equipment worn, your chance of defeating it in combat, and its attitude toward you.    Interact with most objects by pressing 'Space'.  Open doors, talk to people, pick up items: all by pressing 'Space'.    Press 'Alt' for some additional information about the area.  Pressing 'Alt' will bring up an overlay with additional information about the map. Staircases appear magenta, friendly creatures appear green, hostile creatures appear red, chests appear yellow, items appear white.    Find a sidebar view you like.  Press '*' to scroll through sidebar views or press '/' to hide the sidebar.    Get acquainted with the common key mappings.  '-' or '<' to walk up stairs,'+' or '>' to walk down stairs, '`' to rest until healed. Press 'Esc' then 'k' to view a list of the key mappings; scroll down to a mapping and press 'Enter' to remap it!    Get acquainted with the weapon and armor stats.  Weapons have a penetration value and a damage value (for example, 4 1d4). The penetration value represents the armor value that this weapon will usually penetrate with ease. The damage value represents the amount of damage this weapon deals per penetration.   Pieces of armor have a armor value and a dodge value. The armor value is added to your character's armor value which represents how well protected you are from physical attacks that hit you. Likewise, the dodge value is added to your character's dodge value which represents how likely you are to be hit by physical attacks. For both values, the higher the number, the better. (See Attributes and Weapons and Armor).    Speak with Tam, dromad merchant.  Speak with the merchant Tam in the southeastern corner of Joppa. Press 'Tab' to trade with him. You'll be able to stock up on basic provisions, weapons, armor, and ammunition.    Your strength score determines how effectively you penetrate your opponents' armor with melee attacks, how much damage your melee attacks do, your ability to resist forced movement, and your carry capacity.    Your agility score determines your accuracy with both melee and ranged weapons and your ability to dodge attacks.    Your toughness score determines your number of hit points, your hit point regeneration rate, and your ability to resist poison and disease.    Your intelligence score determines your number of skill points and your ability to examine artifacts.    Your willpower score modifies the cooldowns of your activated abilities,  determines your ability to resist mental attacks, and modifies your hit  point regeneration rate.   Your ego score determines the potency of your mental mutations, your ability to haggle with merchants, and your ability to dominate the wills of other living creatures.    Your armor value (AV) is a measurement of how well protected you are against physical attacks that hit you. The higher your score, the less likely an opponent's attack will do severe damage to you. Most characters start with a base AV score of 0.   Your dodge value (DV) is a measurement of how likely you are to be hit by physical attacks. The higher your score, the less likely an opponent's attack will hit you. Your DV is modified by your Agility modifier. Most characters start with a base DV of 6.    Your mental armor (MA) is a measurement of how well protected you are against mental attacks, much as your armor value is a measurement of how well protected you are from physical attacks. The higher your score, the less likely an opponent's mental attack will have a severe effect on you. Your MA is modified by your Willpower modifier. Most characters start with a base MA of 4.    Your quickness score is a measurement of how quickly you perform each and every action you take. Your base quickness score is 100. Note that there are very few ways to augment this score.    Your movement speed is a measurement of how quickly you walk or fly. Your base movement speed is 100.    Your temperature is a measurement of how hot or cold you are. If you are Cold, your quickness score is reduced by half. If you are Frozen, you are unable to take physical actions. If you are Flaming, you take heat damage every turn until you reduce your temperature.    Your acid resist is a measurement of how much acid damage you ablate. Your base acid resist score is 0. At 100, you are immune to acid damage.   Your cold resist is a measurement of how much cold damage you ablate and how insulated you are from effects that reduce your temperature. Your base cold resist score is 0. At 100, you are immune to cold damage and your  temperature cannot be reduced.   Your electrical resist is a measurement of how much electrical damage you ablate and how resistive you are to electric current. Your base electrical resist score is 0. At 100, you are immune to electrical damage and you do not conduct electricity.   Your heat resist is a measurement of how much heat damage you ablate and how insulated you are from effects that increase your temperature. Your base  heat resist score is 0. At 100, you are immune to heat damage and your temperature cannot be increased.    Your skills and powers represent the abilities you have learned in your life. Each skill has several powers associated with it. You begin with several powers determined by your caste or calling. You may purchase other powers by spending skill points which you earn when you gain a level (the higher your intelligence score, the more skill points you earn).   To purchase a new power, you must first purchase the skill with which that power is associated. You must meet any attribute or power requirements of the skill or power you are trying to purchase. It is possible to begin with certain powers without having the associated skills if your caste or calling has granted you those powers.   Powers often grant you activated abilities. Once you purchase a power, you may access your new activated ability from the Manage Abilities menu ('a').   Mutations are special biological powers gifted to the denizens of Qud -- true kin from the outer arcologies do not possess mutations. There are two types of mutations: physical and mental. Each mutation has a mutation score associated with it. The scores of your physical mutations and the cooldowns of activated abilities granted by your physical mutations are static. On the other hand, the scores of your mental mutations are modified by your Ego modifier and the cooldowns of abilities granted by your mental mutations are modulated by 5% for each point of Willpower you possess above or below 16.   Most characters begin with mutation scores of 1. You earn a mutation point when you gain a new level which you may spend to augment the score of one of your mutations by 1. The mutation score of none of your mutations may exceed 1 plus your character level divided by 2. Additionally, mutations may only be augmented by mutation points up to a maximum score of 10, though your mental mutations may exceed this score if your Ego further augments them beyond 10.   Alternatively, you may spend 4 mutation points to choose a new mutation from three randomly selected mutations. The mutation you choose begins with a score of 1. If you are a chimera, you are offered a choice of physical mutations, if you are an esper, you are offered mental mutations, otherwise you are offered three completely random mutations. Mutations often grant you activated abilities. Once you gain a mutation, you may access your new activated ability from the Manage Abilities menu ('a').   Defects are mutations with primarily negative effects. Certain mutants begin with a single defect. There is no score associated with defects.    Artifacts are items so technologically complex that few of Qud's denizens understand them. An unidentified artifact will appear to you as a "Weird Artifact". You may examine an artifact to try to identify it. If you are successful, you will narrow down the possibilities of that artifact's function (what was once a "club", for example, you may now identify as a "rifle"). Eventually you may completely identify the artifact. Each time you attempt to identify something and fail, however, there is a small chance you will break it. Your chance of successfully identifying an artifact is based on your intelligence score.    Tonics are chemical concoctions that enhance your mental and physical stats  in a variety of ways. They are artifacts, and so you must successfully  identify them to understand what they do. Ingesting one tonic while under the effects of another is dangerous; for each new tonic you ingest, there is a greater and greater chance that the tonics will react adversely to each other. The higher your Toughness score is, the greater the chance that you will be able to ingest multiple tonics without incurring undesired effects.  Tonics produce more potent effects in true kin than they do in mutated  humans. Also, as the body chemistry of mutants is inherently unstable,  there is a 5% chance that a tonic ingested by a mutant will instead produce  an undesired effect.  Tonics may be concocted with the Tinker skill. In addition to bits, concocting a tonic often requires a natural ingredient.    Every weapon has a penetration value and a damage value (for example, 4, 1d4). The penetration value of melee weapons is related to your strength score, though the value is capped based on the material of the weapon ('l'ook at a weapon to view its penetration cap). Swords and daggers have penetration values equal to your strength score. Axes have penetration values equal to 1 plus your strength score because they are highly penetrating. Cudgels have penetration values equal to 2 plus your strength score because they are rattling and less dependent on your opponent's armor. Missile weapons have static penetration values that do not change based on your strength score. Weapons may modify other statistics; 'l'ook at a weapon to fully determine what it does.    Most pieces of armor have an armor value and a dodge value (for example, 4 	4)) that augment your own AV and 	DV (see Attributes). Pieces of armor may modify other statistics; 'l'ook at a piece of armor to fully determine what it does.     Melee combat is combat between two adjacent opponents with standard melee weapons such as swords, daggers, axes, and clubs. To attack a hostile adjacent opponent, simply move in the direction of the opponent. To attack something else, such as a non-hostile opponent or a wall, hold 'control' and move in the direction in which you wish to attack.   When you make a melee attack against a target, the following sequence of events occurs:    Determine whether or not you hit the target. Your to-hit roll is 1d20 plus your agility modifier plus any bonuses you receive from your weapon or skill powers. If this roll exceeds your opponent's dodge value (DV), then you hit. An empty circle icon over your target indicates that your attack missed.    Determine how severely your attack penetrates your target's armor. Each weapon has a penetration value (4, for example). This value represents the armor value (AV) that your weapon will usually penetrate with ease. If your weapon's penetration value far exceeds your target's AV, your weapon will likely penetrate several times. Each time your weapon penetrates your target's armor, your target is dealt damage equal to your weapon's damage value (1d4, for example). A filled circle icon over your target indicates that your attack hit but failed to penetrate your target's armor. A heart icon indicates that your attack hit and penetrated your target's armor.    Determine if multiple attacks are made. There is a 15% chance that you make an additional attack with your secondary hand. Characters with multiple limbs may make additional attacks beyond this.   Missile combat is combat between two opponents with missile weapons such as bows, pistols, and rifles. To make a missile attack, press 'f' to aim your weapon, then 'f' again to fire.   When you make a missile attack, the following sequence of events occurs:    Determine the trajectory of your missile. How far a missile is likely to veer from its projected path is determined by your agility score and the weapon's accuracy.    Hit the first medium-sized or larger object along the missile's trajectory.    Determine how severely the missile penetrates your target's armor. This is resolved in the same way as a melee attack.    Determine if multiple attacks are made. Certain powers allow you to fire multiple missiles with certain missile weapons.   If you are engaged in melee combat with more than one hostile opponent, there is a 50% chance that each missile attack you make goes wild (veers 45 degrees to the left or right).     Talk to the town elder in the town of Joppa. Journey north of Joppa to Redrock. Find the creatures that are eating Joppa's watervine. Collect a corpse of one of the creatures. Return to Joppa with the corpse of a watervine eating creature 
from Redrock. Journey into the desert and find the raiders. Slay thirty raiders. Tell Warden Ualraig in Joppa about your victory. Travel to the goatfolk village and find Mamon Souldrinker. Return the amaranthine prism to Warden Indrix. Search Qud for an artifact. Return to Argyve with the artifact. Search Qud for another artifact. Return to Argyve with the artifact. Search the Rustwells, east of Joppa, for 200 total feet
of Copper Wire Deliver 200 feet of Copper Wire to Argyve Travel to the ruined, subterranean gate northeast of Joppa. Locate the Barathrumite conclave within Grit Gate Ask the Barathrumites about Argyve's strange signal. Travel to the great cave Golgotha north of Grit Gate. Find a dysfunctional waydroid among the ruins of Golgotha. Repair the waydroid. Return to Grit Gate with the waydroid and speak with
the Barathrumites. Speak to Q Girl in the workshop and ask her to encode her instructions 
for the baetyl onto the disk. Travel north to the great cavern Bethesda Susa and locate the
Mechanimist temple. Infiltrate the Mechanimist compound, engage the baetyl, and
decode the signal. Return to Grit Gate and speak with Otho. Journey to the far Northwest, through the Great Salt Desert, and visit
the Mechanimist cathedral and merchant bazaar. Travel north to the Spindle at Omonporch. Take control of the grounds beneath the Spindle. Return to Grit Gate to report your success. Defend Grit Gate from its assailants. Make sure Mafeo survives the attack. Make sure Sparafucile survives the attack. Make sure Shem -1 survives the attack. Speak to Otho once the attack has been repelled. Get the blueprints for the climber to deliver to Pax Klanq. Decipher the first part of the enigma. Decipher the second part of the enigma. Decipher the third part of the enigma. Get Pax Klanq to agree to fabricate the climber from Q Girl's design. Return to Grit Gate and speak to Barathrum. You are skilled at acrobatics. You are skilled with axes. You are skilled with bows and rifles. You are skilled at cooking and gathering meal ingredients. You are skilled with crushing and bludgeoning weapons. You are familiar with the customs and folklore of Qud. You are skilled at two-weapon fighting. You chance to attack with an offhand weapon is increased. You are skilled at enduring harsh conditions and situations. You are skilled at first aid. You are skilled with heavy weapons. You are skilled with long thrusting and slashing blades. You are skilled at convincing others. You are skilled with pistols of various kinds. You are skilled at maintaining self-discipline. You are skilled at wielding shields. You are skilled with small one-handed knives and blades. You are aware of basic combat tactics. You are skilled at examining, building, repairing and modding artifacts. You are skilled at wilderness survival. 
