A corpse. A corpse. A corpse. A corpse. A slab of raw meat.~J211 A chunk of metallic debris. A chunk of metallic debris. A chunk of metallic debris. A chunk of metallic debris. A chunk of metallic debris. A chunk of metallic debris. A chunk of metallic debris. A chunk of metallic debris. A chunk of metallic debris. A chunk of metallic debris. A solid wall. A small sphere. Fire has poached the light from this body. Its stillness writhes against the changing soil. The forces of slaughter have rearranged parts of the body. You ponder how rearrangement means something different in each of its contexts: pieces on a game board, favored courtiers in a king's hall, and parts on a body. Who's preserved the skins and innards of this still one? Was it the dry air of Moghra'yi? Or the doting persistence of human ritual? Does it matter? The blood is still wet. Never had you regarded wetness as a sort of clock, until now. Here lies a humanoid who'd have never guessed their torso would shelter dust from the gills of tiny mushrooms, but should have. Plumes of noxious gas stick to the air. They crowd the lungs of wet-blooded creatures who can't extract the displaced oxygen. Hot aerosol swells as it starts to dissipate into air. As clouds descend on a warm valley, so does escaped cryo vapor on its surroundings. Objects come through the translucent mist in waves. As clouds descend on a warm valley, so does escaped cryo vapor on its surroundings. Objects come through the translucent mist in waves. A silver cylinder with a pull ring.~J211 A silver cylinder with a pull ring.~J211 A silver cylinder with a pull ring.~J211 A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A lightweight cylinder of thin metal. A lightweight cylinder of thin metal. A lightweight cylinder of thin metal. A warm sphere with a recessed button on top. A warm sphere with a recessed button on top. A warm sphere with a recessed button on top. A cool sphere with a recessed button on top. A cool sphere with a recessed button on top. A cool sphere with a recessed button on top. A pineapple-like ovoid, with a pull ring. A pineapple-like ovoid, with a pull ring. A pineapple-like ovoid, with a pull ring. A surprisingly heavy, egg-shaped, translucent grenade. A surprisingly heavy, egg-shaped, translucent grenade. A surprisingly heavy, egg-shaped, translucent grenade. A pale white cube, with a band of magenta metal running along the side. A pale white cube, with a band of silver metal running along the side. A pale white cube, with a band of gold metal running along the side. A sleek, chrome ovoid. It hums in vibration.
          
          2d100+20 damage to inorganic matter.
          2d10+20 damage to organic matter. A sleek, chrome ovoid. It hums in vibration.          
          
          4d100+20 damage to inorganic matter.
          4d10+20 damage to organic matter. A sleek, chrome ovoid. It hums in vibration.
                    
          6d100+20 damage to inorganic matter.
          6d10+20 damage to organic matter. A heavy, translucent egg-shaped device. A palm sized disk of jet black plastic, covered in strange runes. Every autumn, many gulch dwellers hike to the Stiltgrounds to purchase the Fall wine. They return to their homes, steep wheat bran in the wine, and leaven dough in their clay ovens. A few are luckier; fungus grove dwellers need only step outside to harvest yeast, and friends to fungi need only shake their yeast-ridden appendages. Cheesecloth sticks to the greasy faces of this pig cheese cuboid. For two years tiny organisms have accumulated on its surfaces, ripening it to tasty perfection. Leafy malachites and pistachios are bound by twine. Every third day or so, a leaf tics and twinges, as it still adjusts to the untoxic air. Spongy foodstuff molded into a slate-hued cube of perfect proportions. What forces married the messiness of eating with the precision of cubes? The truffle is encrusted with a wine-colored char residue born of gasses unknown to the world's surfaces. Deep, deep in the earth and across the Pale Sea was it smoldered to succulence.~J211 Seasoning the minced meat that's trapped under the crust is a smidge of yyffur dust, shaved from the stalk of the eponymous mushroom and finely ground. The whole mushroom is much too powerful for a mammalian psyche (consuming one would obliterate the ego in mere moments), but a smidge of dust on a tasty pie can remind one of one's place in the cosmos.
          
-1 Ego permanently Only the familiar nursery rhyme courses through your brain.

The Grizzly Bear is huge and wild; 
It has devoured the infant child. 
The infant child is unaware;
It has been eaten by the bear.~J211 A small, normal looking bush. It's hard to pay attention to such a mundane specimen. A large prickly looking fellow, he looms with the threat of physical violence, or even a hug. A svelte, candid seeming chap. You realize that the flower is a sex organ, and that gets you thinking. A small pile of quivering fronds, the moss seems quite content. A gnarly mass of heaving tentacles, looks like something a fisherman's wife would enjoy. A stout being, who's bark is worse than its bite. Images of distant places and times past, present, and future shimmer in the space before you. Strange sounds whose makers inhabit those innumerable vistas stretch through your ears, echoes of an astral continuum.~J211 Images of distant places and times past, present, and future shimmer in the space before you. Strange sounds whose makers inhabit those innumerable vistas stretch through your ears, echoes of an astral continuum.~J211 Set in the middle of the great, white head of this ape are two red eyes that gleam with a savage intellect. Snowy white fur covers the ape's hulking frame. It lifts an enormous fist and beats its chest in fury as you approach.~J211 The snow white pelt of an albino ape, prized for its beauty and capacity to provide warmth.~J211 A corpse. A hulking, alabaster ape corpse.~J211 From atop its sunning boulder, this small monkey peers at you with eyes full of curiosity. Two puffs of grey fur billow out from either side of its face.~J211 From atop its sunning boulder, this small monkey peers at you with eyes full of curiosity. Two puffs of grey fur billow out from either side of its face.~J211 From atop its sunning boulder, this small monkey peers at you with eyes full of curiosity. Two puffs of grey fur billow out from either side of its face.~J211 From atop its sunning boulder, this small monkey peers at you with eyes full of curiosity. Two puffs of grey fur billow out from either side of its face.~J211 From atop its sunning boulder, this small monkey peers at you with eyes full of curiosity. Two puffs of grey fur billow out from either side of its face.~J211 A corpse. Though its ursine kinsfolk oppose gravity and chase prey up the splayed branches of trees, the barkbiter knows what natural philosophers know: with some beseeching, the tree and its occupants will descend of their own accord. A large, rotting mound of flesh.~J211 A bloody, stinking hunk of barkbiter flesh.~J211 It sheaths itself in filmy wings. A corpse. Only the familiar nursery rhyme courses through your brain.

The Grizzly Bear is huge and wild; 
It has devoured the infant child. 
The infant child is unaware;
It has been eaten by the bear.~J211 A huge mound of rotting flesh.~J211 A bloody, stinking hunk of bear flesh.~J211 Orbicular beetle that roams and ingests.~J211 Orbicular beetle that roams and ingests.~J211 Plump wedges of beetle meat encased in a cracked, bulbous shell.~J211 A squat, snouted mammal in pink flesh. This ill-tempered, bristled pig struts about on stubby legs.~J211 A bloated lump of boar remains.~J211 A slab of rotting boar meat.~J211 A stinking lump of pig remains. A slab of fresh pig meat.~J211 Slavering muzzles snap at each other as it ambles around in choleric hunger.~J211 This stout human's bare skin is pallid from years of abstaining from sunlight. His eyes are glazed and beastial; isolation has rendered him more of a beast than a man.~J211 A man beyond the pathogen: muscles bulging in grotesque asymmetry, skin both gnashed and scaled, teeth filed into fangs, quivering pupils dilated to the size of coins, and sclera raw with tributaries of blood. A man beyond the pathogen: muscles bulging in grotesque asymmetry, skin both gnashed and scaled, teeth filed into fangs, quivering pupils dilated to the size of coins, and sclera raw with tributaries of blood. Spindle-limbed, brown, and skittish, it spins a home anxiously.~J211 A corpse. The taut muscles of this wild cat are sheathed in interlocking, maize plates of chitin.~J211 The taut muscles of this wild cat are sheathed in interlocking, maize plates of chitin.~J211 A corpse. The taut muscles of this wild cat are sheathed in interlocking, maize plates of chitin.~J211 A corpse. A corpse. A diminutive, metallic man-child. Its awkward gait betrays it as an automaton manufactured by the Barathrumites, though its eyes are eerily lifelike.~J211 A diminutive, metallic man-child. Its awkward gait betrays it as an automaton manufactured by the Barathrumites, though its eyes are eerily lifelike.~J211 A diminutive, metallic man-child wrapped in plates of chrome. This automaton is more sure-footed than its plateless counterparts, though it lacks their precision of dexterity.~J211 With a shell no larger than a human fist, this crab scuttles through a vent curiously suited to the dimensions of its figure. Often accompanied by dozens of its ghastly cousins, the jittering decapod means to devour all living matter it passes over. The head and torso of the cloneling are comprised of skull-sized, hexagonal pyramids of polished chrome. Four many-jointed chrome rods swivel from its core, wielding rusty scalpels, and another hangs limply: the cloneling's genetic nanoprinter. Ideas like the tetravalence of carbon and silicon were suffocated in the thick valley air of jungle hamlets. The human gatherer who mounts a root-braided hillock and looks out to the horizon in wonder, who descries flecks of granite stirring on the mountain face, and who with ancestral dread ponders what toll the rocks themselves are animated to collect, he can't know the miracles of chemistry that sophists inscribed in data disks at the Long Before. Those miracles are to him the ciphers of god-things. Ideas like the tetravalence of carbon and silicon were suffocated in the thick valley air of jungle hamlets. The human gatherer who mounts a root-braided hillock and looks out to the horizon in wonder, who descries flecks of granite stirring on the mountain face, and who with ancestral dread ponders what toll the rocks themselves are animated to collect, he can't know the miracles of chemistry that sophists inscribed in data disks at the Long Before. Those miracles are to him the ciphers of god-things. Ideas like the tetravalence of carbon and silicon were suffocated in the thick valley air of jungle hamlets. The human gatherer who mounts a root-braided hillock and looks out to the horizon in wonder, who descries flecks of granite stirring on the mountain face, and who with ancestral dread ponders what toll the rocks themselves are animated to collect, he can't know the miracles of chemistry that sophists inscribed in data disks at the Long Before. Those miracles are to him the ciphers of god-things. Ideas like the tetravalence of carbon and silicon were suffocated in the thick valley air of jungle hamlets. The human gatherer who mounts a root-braided hillock and looks out to the horizon in wonder, who descries flecks of granite stirring on the mountain face, and who with ancestral dread ponders what toll the rocks themselves are animated to collect, he can't know the miracles of chemistry that sophists inscribed in data disks at the Long Before. Those miracles are to him the ciphers of god-things. Its hoary, cracked scales look like marked stone.~J211 A corpse. A slab of croc meat.~J211 A small, agile ape upon whose face is set a single, oversized eye. It peers at you curiously.~J211 A thick cylinder with a pull ring. A snarling mess of matted hair.~J211 This snarling, spotted dog trots back and forth. A large, beige mastiff sits perched on stiff front legs. That's a dead dog.~J211 A stoic, long-necked mancamel. This crumpled corpse of a mancamel stinks of spice.~J211 A stoic, long-necked mancamel, this trader belongs to the race of mercantile desert-rovers who men call Dromad.~J211 A stoic, long-necked mancamel, this trader belongs to the race of mercantile desert-rovers who men call Dromad.~J211 A stoic, long-necked mancamel, this trader belongs to the race of mercantile desert-rovers who men call Dromad.~J211 A stoic, long-necked mancamel, this trader belongs to the race of mercantile desert-rovers who men call Dromad.~J211 A stoic, long-necked mancamel, this trader belongs to the race of mercantile desert-rovers who men call Dromad.~J211 An arch of electricity writhes between the two feelers of this shoulder-height snail. Its muscular foot disappears beneath a striated, brownish shell.~J211  An arch of electricity writhes between the two feelers of this shoulder-height snail. Its muscular foot disappears beneath a striated, brownish shell.~J211  Shockingly scrumptious. Trudging along at a snail's pace is a bear-sized shell splendiferously adorned by nature. Roiling citrine, frozen azure, and polished jade spiral inwards and out in perfect mathematically harmony. Like your mother baked it. The slimy shell of a hatched snail egg. A slimy egg covered in tiny, hairline cracks A pulpous, plum-colored slug races across the floor. The tiny hairs of this dog-sized spider stick straight up and crackle with electrical energy.~J211 Tiny hairs stick straight up from the charged, crumpled corpse of this spider.~J211 This feathered serpent glides upon great, leathery wings. The air about its colorful plumage shimmers with heat, and it leaves in its wake a blazing trail.~J211 Feathers of every color flit about the warm, curled corpse of this winged reptile.~J211 Char coats the prismatic scales of a coiled ring of meat. It smells like on open flame. The chrome from which this six-legged robot was wrought is tarnished. Where one might expect the head of a beast to rest upon its torso, there is only a smooth semisphere. At the extremity of each of its cyclindrical arms is a conical drill whose spinning produces an ear-splitting whine.~J211 The musculature of this strapping, tranquil beast is so pronounced that it looks as though the muscles themselves might burst through its rich, auburn coat. Great tufts of white hair surround its massive hooves, which it rears every so often while it grazes.~J211  This strapping body of this beast lies in regal repose.~J211 This squat, ivory crab has evolved a heightened sense of hearing in order to perceive its surroundings in the lightless nooks it inhabits.~J211 This squat, ivory crab has evolved a heightened sense of hearing in order to perceive its surroundings in the lightless nooks it inhabits.~J211 The pearly, convex carapace of an eyeless crab.~J211 The cracked, lifeless shell of an eyeless crab.~J211 Delicious, meaty crab legs.~J211 This enormous crab scuttles forth beneath a cavernous ivory shell large enough to house a man and a bedroll, and in fact Qud's subterranean hermits are known to take up residence in the flaking shells of dead king crabs. The enormous, lifeless shell of a deceased king crab.~J211 Enormous, meaty crab legs.~J211  This enormous crab scuttles forth beneath a cavernous ivory shell large enough to house a man and a bedroll, and in fact Qud's subterranean hermits are known to take up residence in the flaking shells of dead king crabs. A giant ant whose antennae writhe about furiously. Plumes of noxious gas rise out of dozens of tiny pores scattered across its carapace. A giant ant whose antennae writhe about furiously. Plumes of fragrant smoke rise out of dozens of tiny pores scattered across its carapace.~J211 Much like the children of her colony, the queen fire ant's onyx carapace fumes with pungent smoke. However, she is much larger than the other fire ants, and on her back she bears a pair of filmy wings with which she conducts her nuptial flights.~J211 A smoldering, upturned ant corpse.~J211  A halo of smoke surrounds an orb of calefaction. The skin about this squat pig's snout is blackened from the heat of its nasal blazes. A single plume of smoke curls upward out of its nostrils.~J211 The blackened corpse of this pig slowly roasts itself.~J211 This stout, thickly-muscled herbivore is intensely territorial, violently attacking anything that crosses its path. The needling proboscis of this enormous fly pierces the skin of an overgrown banana. Its head darts left and right as it scans the grove for threats to its newly-laid eggs.~J211 This quivering mass of jelly is molded in the shape of a pyramid with its tip sliced off. It trudges slowly along by spilling one of its vertices forward and remolding itself about its new position. This quivering mass of jelly is molded in the shape of an egg. It slides slowly along by spilling its gelatinous yolk forward and remolding itself about its new position. A mass of quivering, gelatinous slime. You barely perceive the outline of something inside.~J211 A mass of quivering, gelatinous slime. You barely perceive the outline of something inside.~J211 This is a huge mass of stinking slime, slowly leaking its vital jelly into the floor below. A goat-sized beetle with a striated, onyx shell.~J211 A goat-sized beetle with a striated, onyx shell.~J211 A corpse. A clockwork simulacrum of a goat-sized beetle with a striated, onyx shell. A python-sized arthropod undulates forward on hundreds of chittering legs.~J211 A corpse. Big diaphanous wings bat the air as it drones in place. A corpse. Bristling with coarse, odious stalks of Girsh hair is the thorax of this gigantic fly. Its thousand eyes reflect your image in the color of rust, and from within its mouth an eerie, jaundiced light glows. A truly grotesque creature, the agolzvuv appears to be a massive and un-naturally twisted fly. The enormous forelimb barbs of this flightless terror are hung with bits of flesh from its previous victims, slowly rotting for later consumption. Black ooze drips from its fangs to its pallid leg-things. It shudders in primordial ecstasy and lets out a shrill whine that pierces your skull. Pallid leg-things twitch with zoetic insistence. A corpse. A corpse. The roiling, flailing husk of some sort of Qud worm. Its body and mind have been twisted by the dark energies of the deep caves of Qud. Lucent skin blooms beneath matted feathers. Its tiny beak is hooked. The smouldering remains of a dead crow. Luminescent flecks flit beneath the water's surface. Dimmed motes dot the scales. A constant rain of gorgeous sparkling dust drifts down from the glowmoth's wings. The glowmoth corpse gives off a lovely radiant heat as it slowly decays. A disc of leaf with luminous veins. The curled, tough corpse of a glowpad is indistinguishable from a giant brussel-sprout. This glowpad seems to be... running a small shop? Beneath the umbra of a stinking robe, flesh smears over the bones of a boy who surrenders his body to the metamorphic numen. The twisted remains of a dead glow-wight still radiate a low heat. Beneath the umbra of a stinking robe, flesh smears over the bones of a boy who surrenders his body to the metamorphic numen. Beneath the umbra of a stinking robe, flesh smears over the bones of a boy who surrenders his body to the metamorphic numen. Beneath the umbra of a stinking robe, flesh smears over the bones of a boy who surrenders his body to the metamorphic numen. This tonsured albino has ceremoniously pierced the flesh of his neck with hundreds of urchin spines. He chants the hymn of the hoary demon Bethsaida as he performs a mixing rite, pouring a vial of blood into a vial of luminous water. Beneath the umbra of a stinking robe, flesh smears over the bones of a boy who surrenders his body to the metamorphic numen. It chews cud without a care for the mess in its tangled beard. It chews cud without a care for the mess in its tangled beard. A bloated corpse of a goat. A slab of mild smelling goat meat. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. The stinking corpse of a mangoat. The skin was flayed from the body of this goatfolk leaving behind a crumpled frame of tendons and muscles rotting in putrid, black blood. The dismembered arm of a Naphtaali rootdweller. The dismembered leg of a Naphtaali rootdweller. The dismembered head of a Naphtaali rootdweller. The dismembered arm of a goatfolk. The dismembered leg of a goatfolk. The dismembered head of a goatfolk. Fire burned the flesh and charred the bone of this mangoat. All that remains is a blackened skeletal frame covered in molten, glutinous tissue and crumpled on the ground. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. A small, warm seed. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. Mamon stands nearly a head taller than his kin and broader at the shoulders. Great tufts of blood-matted hair, some of which is braided, tassel out from his head and chin, and a tattered, crimson headdress hangs from one of his colossal horns. In long swathes on his bare chest the fur is scorched and the skin flayed. He wears a sarong wrapped about his waist, its wool fibers sodden with a foul, inky liquid. His face is a vision of madness, at once the countenance of a rapturous crone and a child in fright. A braid of roasted frogskin stretches taut over its swollen pectorals and fastens a satchel to its hip. Its hooves are stained with Naphtaali blood. Spittle flies from its bleating mouth into a tuft of hair beneath its chin. The patchwork of ash and dirt-caked hides make a gradient of flesh across the hermit's body. His hair has knotted into a rat's nest. He screams in a tongue of his own invention. Tiny skin crystals shift and sort, changing the color of its appearance. A narrow bone extrudes from its head. A corpse. A thick cord of bristly segments are capped by a cuspate beak for breaking through shale. A corpse. A slab of mild smelling worm meat. The distended jaw of this large aureolin fish is lined with wicked, blade-like teeth. You shudder to imagine what sort of terrible amphibious fiend the madpole might one day become. It's a little cartilaginous, but tasty. This awful, chimeric beast is known to take any number of forms to fool its prey, though no one knows whether it truly assumes those forms or merely tricks the minds of its quarries into believing it so. A corpse. The young knollworm secretes an epoxy-like resin that hardens into plates when compressed by shale. A droid who shares the stature and girth of a short, rotund man. Its hull is covered in verdigris, and for limbs it bears a broad shovel and a hacksaw. A droid who shares the stature and girth of a short, rotund man. Its hull is covered in verdigris, and for limbs it bears a broad shovel and a hacksaw.
-----          
Reprogrammed by the Mechanimists It gulps and shivers tufts off its rime-tarped nostrils. A soft mash of gooey, stinking flesh. A squat reptile with a massive shell, the tortoise glares at you fearlessly. A massive, cracked tortoise shell, filled with delicious turtle meat. Its swollen tubers hum. The starchy tuber of a dreadroot. Its aspect imbued with lucent coral, this mushroom catches your eye like no other. Qud knows no such hue, and so you ask yourself: what sort of radiant rain dyed its flesh? Could it be an iota of the Eaters themselves, mummified in the soil of the Rainbow Wood? Your eyes lose focus in the spongent craters of a coral moon. Is this the flesh of gods? Poking out of a pool of coral resin are the unbleached bones of a human adult. Its remains have seeded a grove of otherworldly shrooms. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Its leafy lobes flush and dampen with liquid. Auric gills tense and release, tense and release, tense and release, as if drawing breath into the puffer's stem. With each exhalation it belches a cloud of golden spores like motes of sunlight. They flutter back to the cap and congeal into a golden plasma. Azure gills tense and release, tense and release, tense and release, as if drawing breath into the puffer's stem. With each exhalation it belches a cloud of indigo spores like motes of twilight. They flutter back to the cap and congeal into an azure plasma. Rose gills tense and release, tense and release, tense and release, as if drawing breath into the puffer's stem. With each exhalation it belches a cloud of indigo spores like motes of twilight. They flutter back to the cap and congeal into an rose plasma. Jade gills tense and release, tense and release, tense and release, as if drawing breath into the puffer's stem. With each exhalation it belches a cloud of indigo spores like motes of twilight. They flutter back to the cap and congeal into a jade plasma. A luminous toadstool coated in hoarfrost. A luminous toadstool coated in hoarfrost.
          
Duration: 180-220 rounds
You cast light in radius 2.
For the first 5 rounds after imbibing, you gain 0.6 hit points per level (minimum 3) each round.
+20 cold resistance
You cannot be poisoned.

This item is a tonic. Applying one tonic while under the effects of another may produce undesired results. This plant is a densly twisted mat of metallic fibers and long, billowing red fronds, which wave gently towards you on an unfelt breeze. A crunchy, red, celery-like stalk. A swarthy wall-vine that embraces lovers and doesn't care to see them go. The rare and beautiful blossom of a jilted lover vine. From the great, sloping forehead of this man-ape sprouts no hair, though rich black fur courses over the rest of its body. Broad knuckles bear the brunt of its weight as the beast saunters forth in search of something to clobber. The filthy pelt of an ogre ape. A hulking, alabaster ape corpse.~J211 A bulbous snag of a plant, unshy about sharing its spines. This stygian spongeball compresses when it senses danger before puffing out a drowsing gas. The shell of this large crab reflects light with a copper sheen as if it were wrought from the metal itself. The crustacean waves its rusty, serrated claws at you angrily. The massive, armored corpse of a Rustacean. It smells of old blood. This massive palm is covered in huge cysts which leak a vile, viscous jelly. In its infancy, rock streamed through the planet in plumes of magma, spilled into hushed caverns, and quickened pools of protoplasm out of its stilled inertia. Plates slipped and matter was crushed, pressurized. Later, as entropy bore cracks into the crust, sticky lifethings fused to the rock and scuttled forth. In geological terms they are tiny things, but you insist that scale is the wrong one. The bright red, rock-encrusted corpse of a great magma crab. Words fail to contain the paradox of its domesticated immensity.
          
Drifts on the cultural seas have swept a particular fable to your attention. Long ago, far away, folks supposed all of everything rested on the back of a world-tortoise. Surely that flight of fancy came to someone gazing on a Great Saltback... or does your own vision echo through the past to partake in its creation? Here an ossified world occupies space. It's only dead in the narrow sense. The yeast that colonize its ridges don't see it that way, nor does the yearning past. Everything near the bantam mammal is damp: fur, hair, leaves, soil, slick silver alloys. It's as if she's a furry world unto herself, and the sweet, sickening, evaporated honey about her is her atmosphere. Albino legs thrust its turgid thorax through the air. A sharp, sticky mandible. Broken chitin. Delicious wafers, made from the rich underbelly meat of a salthopper, still attached to the crunchy exoskeleton. Ovoidal spots, crimson and coral and citrine, run the course of its torso and head. A corpse. This robot bears a featureless chrome plate for a face and treads for locomotion. Attached to the ends of each of its grooved, steel arms spins a rusty rotary saw. This ancient medical robot is shaped like a squat, friendly dwarf, with it's painted features long worn away to swaths of pitted metal. It reaches a helpful arm out, holding a stubby booster injector, ready to cheerfully cleanse the world of all its varied disease. A small crossbow with a wide barrel to hold darts. This massive dirt-cowled leech undulates towards the smell of blood. This massive dirt-cowled leech undulates towards the smell of blood. A corpse. This huge, bloated leech's skin is taut, its insides full of drained blood. A corpse. Skin as verdurous leaves crushed flat cloak the diminutive figure against the jungle's undergrowth. But the Naphtaali ruse doesn't end there. A mask weaved from coarse plant fiber veils the emotive face of the rootdweller. Only the trees know whose hoary visage they don. Skin as verdurous leaves crushed flat cloak the diminutive figure against the jungle's undergrowth. But the Naphtaali ruse doesn't end there. A mask weaved from coarse plant fiber veils the emotive face of the rootdweller. Only the trees know whose hoary visage they don. Skin as verdurous leaves crushed flat cloak the diminutive figure against the jungle's undergrowth. But the Naphtaali ruse doesn't end there. A mask weaved from coarse plant fiber veils the emotive face of the rootdweller. Only the trees know whose hoary visage they don. Skin as verdurous leaves crushed flat cloak the diminutive figure against the jungle's undergrowth. But the Naphtaali ruse doesn't end there. A mask weaved from coarse plant fiber veils the emotive face of the rootdweller. Only the trees know whose hoary visage they don. Skin as verdurous leaves crushed flat cloak the diminutive figure against the jungle's undergrowth. But the Naphtaali ruse doesn't end there. A mask weaved from coarse plant fiber veils the emotive face of the rootdweller. Only the trees know whose hoary visage they don. Skimming the underbrush, sailing on air, a shiny ooid of perfect chrome reflects the dim light peeking through the canopy's braided tresses. A larger version of the knit mask worn by the Naphtaali rootdwellers adorns its surface in imitation of a face. It rotates with specious purpose. Skimming the underbrush, sailing on air, a shiny ooid of perfect chrome reflects the dim light peeking through the canopy's braided tresses. A larger version of the knit mask worn by the Naphtaali rootdwellers adorns its surface in imitation of a face. It rotates with specious purpose. Skimming the underbrush, sailing on air, a shiny ooid of perfect chrome reflects the dim light peeking through the canopy's braided tresses. A larger version of the knit mask worn by the Naphtaali rootdwellers adorns its surface in imitation of a face. It rotates with specious purpose. Like a leaf-strewn mound of root lies the corpse of a Naphtaali rootdweller. This giant spider shimmers as its body phases through the several dimensions of physical space. This giant spider shimmers as its body phases through the several dimensions of physical space. The stony, sloughed skin of a basilisk. The stony, sloughed skin of a basilisk. This arthropod undulates forward on hundreds of chittering legs. Tiny, needle-pointed quills jut out from between plates of chitin along its protracted body. The hulking corpse of an enormous, spiny quillipede. This twisted cousin of the banana grows shorter than its passive counterpart. Its banana hands have grown into grotesque muscular bundles, built to pound passing animals into soil-enriching fertilizer. A mass of flesh two stories high, the salt kraken dominates the landscape, churning the earth beneath its inexorable advance. A hulking mass of decaying flesh, the corpse of the salt kraken smells of the distant west wind. Motes of salt fill the notches in its chitin, which form a record of every other scorpiock it's wrestled and garroted. Behind, it's stinger coils in harmonic perfection. A bloated corpse of a Scorpiock. A slab of scorpiock meat.~J211 Glistening barrels of silvery fleshstuff shudder in ecstasy until they tear into two, pause in a moment of reprieve, then resume their rapturous dithering. A corpse. A corpse. A corpse. A corpse. A corpse. These appear to be the flattened remains of some vainglorious humanoid. A gnarled, hunched form shrouded in layers of twisted sheet-metal bound by leather thongs. A massive, muscular boar, with an un-naturally long snout. The torpid slugsnout can spit massive, solid slugsnout slugs, made out of the compacted undigestible sinew of their prey, out of its slugsnout snout. Each head of this bristled pig bears two elongated snouts through which it sneezes rock-hard pellets of dried mucus. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. Tussocks of fur dress skin stretched over taut muscle. Upright it stands, but it looks ready to drop onto fours. Its snout snarls and its ears twitch. It barks, and its hyena tribesmen answer. A corpse. The thing's pulvilli crackle and pop to an aharmonic rhythm. It caroms from spot to spot, galvanized by a primordial impulse. A corpse. The bowl-like scutum is scratched in the furcate patterns of an electric arc. A weapon mounted on an automated tripod. A squat, jittery insect, the spark tick ripples with tiny arcs of static electricity. A weapon mounted on an automated tripod. A weapon mounted on an automated tripod. A weapon mounted on an automated tripod. A chaingun mounted on a tripod. A laser mounted on a tripod. A rocket launcher ounted on a tripod. Delicate, viridian tendrils curl inward, and then spring open and loosen seeds at high speeds.  Delicate, viridian tendrils curl inward, and then spring open and loosen seeds at high speeds.  Compacted seed matter that's been rolled in the tendrils of a brooding vine. You nearly mistake it for a boulder, and then you spot a crease in its hide as it draws a slow, hibernative breath. Suddenly you understand the saying among pig farmers: always fear large rocks. The umber brown spitting slug produces an acidic slime, which it both secretes and hawks at its adversaries. This slender, spidery robot jaunts lightly, carrying a single slender tube which trails a thin wisp of smoke. A basic shoulder-mounted missile launcher. This is a heavy weapon. An assymetrical jumble of girders and thin wire, an arcwyrc appears to be just another pile of rubble. Only when it springs to life, its countless limbs popping with thousands of electrical sparks, does its' great danger present itself. A massive electric arc projector. This is a heavy weapon. A twisted and hungry cave troll, larger even than an Equimax stallion. The massive, chewed femur of some gigantic beast. A huge stone hammer-head is lashed to its end. A shaft of some ancient, pitted metal. A massive stone axe-head is lashed to its end. A recently budded troll foal. A king of trolls. The troll called Jotun slumps beneath the weight of his broad and cragged back. Soaking fibers of inky, unkempt hair enswathe the great, pale rocks that are his shoulders. Crossed over his chest are two carbide axes, their shafts knurled and rotting with rust. Jotun's rumpled eyelids lay half-shut over the discs of his sluggish eyes as he reclines in his bath of convalessence. A latticework of frost sticks to Fjorn-Kosef's coarse beard and bushy brow hair. The great, bony slab of his head is obscured behind his icy breath, and swathing his anemic, misshaped arms are long strands of icy filament. The wraith troll, a shade of a shade, Haggabah is discernible only as a shadow that is somehow darker than the absence of light. A roiling mass of psychically innervated tissue, a twinning lamprey is never for want of company This three-span, rust-hued arachnid is so named for its instinctual ability to displace those who threaten it by folding space in the local area. A corpse. Air is synthesized into spacial displacement in the arciform chambers and shunted through the aether. This hulking, four-legged monstrosity prowls the landscape ceaselessly. Its protuberant head scans the horzion slowly, in it's ageless quest for timelost prey. A kinetic energy weapon with a massive barrel. This is a heavy weapon. Tiny granules of ice stick to the violet frill of this frigid iguana. A mountainous pyramid of chrome hovers about you. The volume around it appears furrowed somehow, and sound only comes through in waves; it's as though space and time themselves were crumpled away before the thing's very presence. A massive array of missile. This is a heavy weapon. A man-sized cylinder hovers just above the floor. It emits a low, menacing hum as it glides slowly, searching for intruders with its many protruding sensor arrays. A long, articulated arm, ending in a sparking rod, dangles from its side. The Wof is a craven, cowardly test race. A corpse. A gang of tiny, plastic gyroscopes undulates toward you. For what purpose were they originally designed to serve? The echo of that memory has long since waned in the chrome halls of Qud. A small, gnarled machine. Its form has been twisted by long years repairing itself with the random detritus of Qud. A massive tube of muscle, tipped in a beak built for grinding stone. A gooey mound of knollworm flesh. It smells vaugly mushrooms. Bloated pustules of noxious gas quilt the abdomen of this writhing, pallid maggot. Scintillating. Rather than spend its energy growing resilient to trampling, this grass takes a more offensive approach to groundskeeping. The fluted stem of tossled yonderbrush. Packed into rents in the shale are the spinescent shoots of blooming ivory. Spiny mineral nodules camouflaged against marble and chrome. This fungal hypha is encased in a razor-sharp metallic exoskeleton. This animate sac of brown sludge rolls along the floor. Through the thin membrane that keeps it from spilling out of itself you spot a shoal of eels swimming about. The skin of this sly fish is slick and diaphanous. It writhes around Golgotha's fetid pools unseen, wrapping itself around the legs of hapless trudgers and drawing them into the guck. This animate sac of black ooze rolls along the floor. Through the thin membrane that keeps it from spilling out of itself you spot a shoal of eels swimming about. This animate sac of luminous ooze rolls along the floor, unknowingly guiding those spry adventurers who would ply the halls of Bethesda Susa. This animate sac of green goo rolls along the floor. Through the thin membrane that keeps it from spilling out of itself you spot a shoal of eels swimming about. The colossal slug known as Slog presides over its fetid domain of the Cloaca. It bathes its bloated, slimy body in the moiling pools of dross and detritus so that it avoids desiccation. Living things that find their selves in the slug's track are like to be crushed and eaten. Whereas nature had the decency to end the body of the common slug in a muscular foot, Slog's tail is instead a striated trunk with which it flings at its prey the glop of the Cloaca with extraordinary dexterity. The grotesque, still-undulating husk of the Slog. Rime-dotted nodules crust over the infected skin, where an algid mist clings. The fungus colony has terraformed the epidermis into what looks like a miniature range of ice-capped peaks. Tiny spore-motes flutter down from the fleshy gills that twitch on the striated skin. Trapped inside are another thousand spores waiting to be jostled free. Dozens of tiny mouths tessellate the infected skin, their moist lips pursing in asynchronicity and panting out prattle. Every so often, the cacophony harmonizes into sensible speech. A wax-weeping fungus has encased the appendage in a lucent cast. Body heat melts the innermost layer, and a thick, waxy milk sloshes against its hardened prison. Honestly, a little creepy. A mass of quivering, gelatinous slime. You barely perceive the outline of something inside.~J211 Quickened to life, or something akin to life, by the ionic exchange between an ultra-reactive primordial soup and its liquid cousin, the sludge repeats a process played out on trillions of star-orbiting world-rocks. Is it a coincidence that the knotted, erumpent throng of organ that is Pax Klanq is shaped in the vague form of a humanoid, or is the prodigy fungus welcoming his extradimensional anthropoid visitors with a warm gesture? In either case, his splendid orange cap looks like a fancy hat. The semblance ends there, however; in place of a face, there's only a trio of undulating tentacles.
          
At the edges of your field of vision, more tentacles writhe over tools, books, circuitboards, frog cadavers, and saltwater pearls. You realize just how many things Klanq does at once, and you wonder at Nature's decision to bestow peak organic wit to a fungus. A meter-wide sphere sits on a nest of splindly metal legs. The surface of the orb is covered in faceted eyes. A dog-sized translucent box hovers quietly. Four glowing thruster-pods twitch on outstretched gimbals, constantly adjusting for minute eddies in the air. Underneath the box hang a variety of many-tooled tendrils. A tiny quadrapedal machine; above it an antenna whips about, surrounded by a flourescent green haze. Black ooze drips from its fangs to its pallid leg-things. It shudders in primordial ecstasy and lets out a shrill whine that pierces your skull. Beneath the umbra of a stinking robe, flesh smears over the bones of a boy who surrenders his body to the metamorphic numen. The Issachari nomad stands shrouded in robes tattered and sun-bleached. A kufeya wrapped around his neck and face protect against poisoned salt. The Issachari nomad stands shrouded in robes tattered and sun-bleached. A kufeya wrapped around his neck and face protect against poisoned salt. Wearing unusual foreign clothing, the caravan guard presents an exotic form. The Issachari nomad stands shrouded in robes tattered and sun-bleached. A kufeya wrapped around his neck and face protect against poisoned salt. The face of this trenchcoated man is masked beneath the brim of a black hat, but you safely assume it bears the weathered features of a dark past. A braided silver column lasermount. Its fragile, chrystachrome shell shatters on impact and reconstitutes itself away from danger. Wearing simple robes, the pilgrim's visage is surprisingly calm, given his surroundings. Wearing simple robes, the pilgrim's visage is surprisingly calm, given his surroundings. Swathing the frail frame of this waif is the habit of her order: grey matter robes and a blindfold over her eyes. Swathing the frail frame of this waif is the habit of her order: grey matter robes and a blindfold over her eyes. This androgynous figure has shorn itself of all its body hair. A leather jerkin, breeches, and moccasins protect its pasty, veined flesh. It bears one arm of flesh and one of fluted chrome, and the irises of its eyes are achromatic. The Mechanimists worship Qud's lifeless machines as gods. Unlike the Barathrumites, they venerate deactivated artifacts and claim to propitiate the gods with their sacrifice. The Mechanimists worship Qud's lifeless machines as gods. Unlike the Barathrumites, they venerate deactivated artifacts and claim to propitiate the gods with their sacrifice. The Mechanimists worship Qud's lifeless machines as gods. Unlike the Barathrumites, they venerate deactivated artifacts and claim to propitiate the gods with their sacrifice. The Mechanimists worship Qud's lifeless machines as gods. Unlike the Barathrumites, they venerate deactivated artifacts and claim to propitiate the gods with their sacrifice. The pilgrim wears a costume of humility: simple frock, wide-brimmed hat, cerulean scarf, slouched back, and weary eyes. The pilgrim wears a costume of humility: simple frock, wide-brimmed hat, cerulean scarf, slouched back, and weary eyes. This hunchback is garbed in filthy robes the color of slate. Strands of matted chin hair splay against his chapped lips as he examines a broken trinket. His eyes are wide, his lips quiver in rapture at the recitation of chromaic liturgies. He marches forth in the holy, metal raiment of the Kasaphescence, ready to lay down his life in the name of his Argent Fathers. Culled from the temple paladins, the stoic visage of this sanctum warden might as well have been shaped from chrome. He stands behind his azure aegis in the catatonia of a singular purpose: to defend the holy Rock from interlopers. The desert wind blows salt into his mouth and cerulean eyes. His lips are cracked and the skin on his face is raw. Nonetheless, he steadies himself on his aegis and peers out over the Stiltgrounds. Here, inside the Stilt, the masses are free to worship, but the sanctity of the Argent Fathers' home must be preserved. He recites the Canticles Chromaic with reverberant gusto, gesturing emphatically with his hands. Swaddled in ornamental regalia stands His Holiness Eschelstadt II, high priest of the Stilt and voice of Shekhinah. His arms gust over the splendor of the cathedral, the majesty of the Argent Fathers, and the spirit of reverence put into every work of art in their name. Eschelstadt roars a sermon unto the nave, heaving the wind from the rafters down into the Sacred Well. Pilgrims tremble beneath the weight of his voice and the cerulean silhouette of Shekhinah behind him. He recites the Canticles Chromaic with reverberant gusto, gesturing emphatically with his hands. He recites the Canticles Chromaic with reverberant gusto, gesturing emphatically with his hands. He recites the Canticles Chromaic with reverberant gusto, gesturing emphatically with his hands. He recites the Canticles Chromaic with reverberant gusto, gesturing emphatically with his hands. "He who dons the chrome mantle is as one with his Fathers." Argent trestles spill forth from his scalp to his waist. Years of proximity to the baetyl have blanched his irises to a chrome hue. His glistening lips are parted. The priestly mantle of his station is embroidered with a thousand stitches. In the grip of each of his sinewy hands are chrome-plated pistols -- bequeathments of the Argent Father who inhabits the Rock. He brandishes his prayer rod in order to assist students learn their verses of the Canticles Chromaic. She croons a worshipful hymn to her Argent Fathers and the Kasaphescence. His lip sneers beneath a mustache of matted hair. His hand clutches the loop of a leather whip, which he snaps at his hounds. Acidic drool dribbles from the jowls of this snarling mastiff. The Putus Templar are an order of knights who loathe mutation in any form. They are among Qud's last true kin, and they have pledged their lives to eradicating the mutant swarm that creeps toward their home from all sides. The forces of slaughter have rearranged parts of the body. You ponder how rearrangement means something different in each of its contexts: pieces on a game board, favored courtiers in a king's hall, and parts on a body. The Putus Templar are an order of knights who loathe mutation in any form. They are among Qud's last true kin, and they have pledged their lives to eradicating the mutant swarm that creeps toward their home from all sides. The Putus Templar are an order of knights who loathe mutation in any form. They are among Qud's last true kin, and they have pledged their lives to eradicating the mutant swarm that creeps toward their home from all sides. His cloak bulges around his waist, where he stashes scrap on his belt. He doesn't look at you but two steps in front of you. His cloak bulges around his waist, where he stashes scrap on his belt. He doesn't look at you but two steps in front of you. His cloak bulges around his waist, where he stashes scrap on his belt. He doesn't look at you but two steps in front of you. The urshiib hunches over. He adjusts his robe with needly, triple-jointed fingers. Tufts of quills adorn his pale body. The urshiib hunches over. She adjusts her robe with needly, triple-jointed fingers. Tufts of quills adorn her pale body. The urshiib hunches over. He adjusts his robe with needly, triple-jointed fingers. Tufts of quills adorn his pale body. The urshiib hunches over. She adjusts her robe with needly, triple-jointed fingers. Tufts of quills adorn her pale body. As you approach this still figure you catch sight of his coat, sown from frayed, varicolored patches. This man is filthy and wild-eyed. His mouth twists into a delirious grin when he notices you; judging by that aspect of glee and eagerness, he seems to believe that he alone is privy to some cardinal knowledge, which will surely enlighten you once he deigns to share it. He preaches the chromaic gospel of the Mechanimists. Precious saliva flies from his cracked lips, but he's too rapt in the music of his words to notice. An old man with sand and soot in his beard. Innumerable baubles and curios clutter his workshop, shaded from the sunsear by a sheet of metal pitched upon the roof of his hut. One of Argyve's bushy eyebrows is perpetually cocked, though whether that's owed to an insatiable curiosity or forehead mutation is unknown. A hunched-back ancient wrapped in a black robe. His smile is warm. Protruding from his back is a stalk hidden under a veil. The stalk forks into two hands with eyes in their palms, and immediately you know why men follow Irudad. One star-ribboned night, a ray cat crossed the marshy loam and wandered into Joppa. The watervine farmers, wakened by the joyful cries of a small girl, gathered around to revel at the favorable omen and extol the generosity of the Beetle Moon. Since then, Ctesiphus has spent his days curled under the shade of brinestalk huts and sauntering over dirt paths. So long as he's approached with care, he welcomes the hands of friends and strangers alike.
          
phosphorescent Years of the desert have taken their toll on his body, but he commands your ear with his voice like few other men, and you wonder what sovereignty he might've come to were he not born a moisture farmer. The tatters of a sweat-stained chafiyeh thrash in the wind from where they hang about the farmer's neck. Clasped in his gnarled, brown hand is a curved vinereaper of iron with which he culls moisture-swollen wafers from the viridian plant called watervine. The pig farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over his eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on his cheeks. His hands are caked in mud and salt. This brawny, mustachioed man wears a white apron stained with the juice of starapples. His sable hair mats against the browned skin of his forehead. From his left forearm hangs a wet rag, with which he scrubs the dirt from his hands every few moments. O, she doth pale red apples by her cheek! 
That cheek which doth proclaim the rite of spring, 
And heretofore hath nature's grand technique, 
Ne'er ripened lips so red from which to sing. 
Begone, false sun! I know thee for a fraud. 
Her fairest skin illuminates the day. 
All gold is brass and e'ery jewel is flawed, 
When set beside the sums her eyes might pay. 
The Spindle, which from Omonporch ascends, 
Must surely be her likeness brightly wrought, 
And as a likeness, fails to apprehend, 
The artless beauty that its makers sought. 
Did I know love or beauty? No, for shame! 
For I knew neither till they spoke her name. Big Ualraig shifts his weight between his hind and forelegs. He shakes dander off the chipped surface of the great curling horns that splay from his temples. One hand holds a purring blade. The other, lame and frostbitten, reminds us that while Mother Nature may bestow splendid gifts upon her children, she is still sister to Cruelty. A stoic, long-necked man-camel merchant. Set into an ancient rust-stained metal box are a speaker and an anonymous button. You gaze upon your own reflection in the lustrous chrome face of this conical orb, which emits a crackling drone and showers azure sparks upon the floor. You gaze upon your own reflection in the lustrous chrome face of this conical orb. It emits a harmonic drone. You gaze upon your own reflection in the lustrous chrome face of this conical orb, which emits a crackling drone and showers azure sparks upon the floor. A shimmering force-field. A massive metal door. A massive metal door. He stands with tremendous import and stillness, as if upon some hidden but vital vertex of the enclave.
          
In Barathrum's name, he's conferred onto himself the tonsure of stewardship and shorn the hair from his scalp. His snout narrows in proportion to the tight corridors around him. His robe is impeccably clean. Waydroids beep and whir at him obediently as they scuffle passed. She's an opal in the monochrome.

Her hair is a quasar of red ochre and indigo in the blanched light of the workshop. Her cartilage is pierced by polyhedral rings that spin in antinomy to the cave's simple geometry. Beneath the quills her skin is decorated in furcate lines, fantastic elaborations on the patterns of discarded circuitboards. She's surrounded by apparatuses of her own creation. Through the harmony of those machines, she cuts a swath through the entropic brine that sizzles around her in a loudening chorus. Thousands of alabaster bristles sprout every which way from the braided frame of the eldest urshiib in Qud. Leaning on a walking staff with long, winding grooves for his serpentine fingers, he stares at nothing with pale red eyes like dying suns. A machine wrought from some primordial black metal into the likeness of a man, Rodanis Y towers over the halls of Grit Gate.  This urshiib has particularly long and slender fingers even beyond the likes of those of his kin. Littering his workshop are all sorts of implements of battle, from shoulder-mounted cannons to needle-pointed vibroblades. A burly urshiib with long, bowed quills almost as large as tusks. About him lie mails and vests for a plethora of torso shapes. Ignoring everything else around him, this urshiib focuses his concentration on manipulating the tiny gears of some enigmatic apparatus. Mafeo's bristling mane contorts in such a way that in the faint light he almost looks to be grinning. Fastened to several of his quills are tiny bells meant to draw the attention of prospective customers.  A squat, elder cave bear, Aloysius eyes you with suspicion as you approach his chromelings. He stands with tremendous import and stillness, as if upon some hidden but vital vertex of the enclave.
          
In Barathrum's name, he's conferred onto himself the tonsure of stewardship and shorn the hair from his scalp. His snout narrows in proportion to the tight corridors around him. His robe is impeccably clean. Waydroids beep and whir at him obediently as they scuffle passed. Mafeo's bristling mane contorts in such a way that in the faint light he almost looks to be grinning. Fastened to several of his quills are tiny bells meant to draw the attention of prospective customers.  As strange as it seems, the mayor's hulking frame and alabaster fur identify him unmistakeably as an albino ape. His flanks have softened and swollen, however, on account of a sedentary life unknown to his savage brothers and sisters, and in place of contorted rage he wears an aspect of reflective wonder. He clothes himself in a crude toga, a beaten, wide-brimmed hat, and a walking stick upon which he doesn't lean but rather brandishes in a stately manner. Beneath a mane of coarse hair, Warden Indrix's lips move without issuing forth any sound, perhaps in the formation of a litany invoked in the name of the vengeful god he serves. The course hair grows in an uninterrupted mass down his torso, that of a human but broader and more taut with muscle than any man's, disappearing only behind the sash of his kilt. But for Mayor Nuntu and the warden himself, no one knows the circumstances of Indrix's estrangement from his kin, for no one dares mention it lest they draw the warden's ire. One of his great curling horns has been cleanly cloven from his head, however. That same horn along with several others hang from a belt slung low about Indrix's hips, giving him the distinction of being the only warrior to bear his own appendage as a trophy.  Before you reclines a man clothed in leafy raiment, so svelte and still you mistake him for the fallen branch of a sickly tree until you meet the gaze of his cerulean eyes. Upon closer scrutiny, you discern the hilts of his twin swords, Caslainard and Polluxus, rising through the foliage of his cloak and over his shoulders. His sylvan sashes, of which he wears several, are strewn with the ears, claws, and horns of creatures unfamiliar to you, and as you examine them, he scrutinizes you wearing an expression that bears qualities of both a smirk and a scowl yet that is not quite either. He seems pretty subserviant. Yurl, a sentient cucumber vine, puts its roots down in a squat clay pot on the floor of its hut. Myriad wares rest on oaken shelves throughout the room, and with its tendrils Yurl exhibits them to interested customers by crawling along an iron trellis. You notice that Yurl creeps toward products almost before you think of them; the gift of telepathy affords the sprightly vine a distinct advantage as a chandler. This brown-skinned woman wears a filthy shift and perches a basket on her hip. She stalks through foliage about the outskirts of the village gathering edible mushrooms and keeping an instinctive eye on the children at play.  A small child in filthy rags, hair and skin caked with dirt. It capers about the village with arms flailing wildly. A lithe, brown-skinned man wearing only a loincloth. Over one bare shoulder a bow is slung; over the other he carries the pelt of some forest animal. At the sound of each breaking twig or aberrant bird call, his body tenses and his hand reaches for the grip of his bow; he poises himself to defend his village from those cloven-hoofed savages that would pillage it.  This nude, brown-skinned figure alternates between kneeling low before the shrine of Oboroqoru and skulking around it observantly. His body is black with the dirt of the earth, but his face is uncharacteristically clean, and you notice every so often he uncorks a waterskin that hangs around his neck, moistens his hands, and scrubs the grime from his cheeks and brow. Oboroqoru's worshipers deem this rite a more meaningful use of their precious freshwater than even the quenching of thirst, and in presenting unsullied faces to the idol of their ape god, they hope to propitiate him and garner his favor and protection.  This stone idol of Oboroqoru stands twenty spans tall. Its nameless sculptor chose to depict the ape god sitting cross-legged with each of his three pairs of gargantuan arms grasping each other. The idol is swathed in vines, its caretakers ceding to nature save where the herbage has threatened to obscure Oboroqoru's gentle countenance. Wreaths of flowers of every hue the forest begets -- azure, chartreuse, indigo, canelian -- litter the base of the shrine, insignificant offerings to what appears to be a callous god. You stand not at the foot of a wintry knoll but beneath a mountain of muscle, swathed in blanched fur, that must be nature's crowning jewel. Cast from the mold of the great apes (or perhaps the exemplar from which those apes were molded), the living god differs only in that he bears not two but six arms, each of which might be the fleeced bole of an ancient yew. His fists are of proportions that suggest the might with which hoary gods beat the mountains into shape when the earth was young. However, his aspect bears not a shred of that divine fury; he doesn't rage but instead sits in contemplation of eons. There's a saying among the vintners who hoist their sails toward the Stilt. 'One rose is fair; five is death.' Indeed, when a single shawl swathes her face and the Esthers are one, there is peace beneath the Stilt. But when she's joined by her sisters, and scarlet ribbons thrash in the desert air, there is only blood and justice. He preaches the chromaic gospel of the Mechanimists. Precious saliva flies from his cracked lips, but he's too rapt in the music of his words to notice. He preaches the chromaic gospel of the Mechanimists. Precious saliva flies from his cracked lips, but he's too rapt in the music of his words to notice. She croons a worshipful hymn to her Argent Fathers and the Kasaphescence. This brawny, mustachioed man wears a white apron stained with the juice of starapples. His sable hair mats against the browned skin of his forehead. From his left forearm hangs a wet rag, with which he scrubs the dirt from his hands every few moments. Her spectacles are fogged and her hands are stained with ink. Her spectacles are fogged and her hands are stained with ink. Bees flutter around the brim of his hat, pulled low over his sweaty brow. His apron is stained with glistening drops of honey. Fine crushed herbs dust the old man's pestle knuckles. He kneads the remnants of jams and paste against his smock. Clipped yuckwheat stems unwittingly decorate his grey locks. He smells like a childhood meal. Grape-stained teeth fill his grinning mouth. He sings the praises of his family's vintage. Sweat-stained sleeves bellow through a leather apron. He turns an awl around his fingers. She's woven a leather chin strap between her fingers. Pelts of a dozen animals hang from her shoulder. Glove tranks are fastened to the back of his hands with loose thread. He bites a needle for safekeeping. Pastes and jams of various colors smear their apron like a painter's palette. Flour dusts their broad, dough-kneading knuckles. Pastes and jams of various colors smear their apron like a painter's palette. Flour dusts their broad, dough-kneading knuckles. Wire, twine, and thread tangle from spools strapped to his vest. He sports a ruffled cloak of unknown fashion. Tongs clip between his soot-seared apron and the barrel of his chest. He clasps a swivel knife and hammer for working leather and metal. A crushed hat brim mantles his eyes and a leather holster rides his shoulder. He rolls a lead slug over his leathery knuckles. His fingers are stained with soot, the devil's ink. Scars criss-cross their way up his arms. His apron is damp with the sap of a thousand trees. His lips are painted in watercolor. He rings ichor from his hair. A telescopic monocle is affixed to his eye, and he squints permanently. He twirls a delicate stone in appraisal. Spectacles rest on his pointy nose. His nails are caked with graphite, and reams of graph paper are splayed across his desks. The crab farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over his eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on his cheeks. His hands are caked in mud and salt. The leech farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over his eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on his cheeks. His hands are caked in mud and salt. The cat herder slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over his eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on his cheeks. His hands are caked in mud and salt. The amoeba farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over his eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on his cheeks. His hands are caked in mud and salt. The snail farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over his eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on his cheeks. His hands are caked in mud and salt. The goat herder slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over his eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on his cheeks. His hands are caked in mud and salt. The beetle farmer slouches in the heat. A beaten, leather hat is pulled low over his eyes and sweat glistens on the scruffs of hair on his cheeks. His hands are caked in mud and salt. Glorious Shekhinah, Argent Adonis and First Father, poses in luminous mummery. With the stature of the ageless stars, fixed and permanent, He appraises the temple erected in His honor and cocks His head in approval. Befitting the memory of His union with the Kasaphescence, He clothes His manifestation in cerulean shades, forsaking the viridians and russets of the lowly plants and clay earth. Statue of god. Nisroch the star mason is depicted here straddling the earth with his mighty legs. He dons his favorite sash, whose folds are exquisitely worked in gold. The statue of Bel wears its tremendous weight in polished marble. He wields his epochal aegis, storied for obstructing a swirling gas cloud in the starry dawn. Here Shekhinah has been sculpted into permanence with magnificent cerulean marble. His body is chiseled to blessed perfection. His golden diadem crowns him Father among Fathers. Dagon the orator domineers the west apse with his brazen pose. His golden coronet shines splendidly in the fire's shine. Carthax the athlete is depicted here mid-stride. His glistening silver hair is tied behind his head, in astral tradition, as he vaults through the firmament. Resheph, who's called 'the Above', lifts an enigmatic finger to heal the wounds of the sick. The polished bronze glows by the firelight. A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A large, storage vase with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A vessel of exquisitely blown glass. The style hints that it originates from the coast of Fuming God Sea, on the far side of Moghra'yi, and that it was likely exported by the dromads. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A clay pitcher with a decorative slip. The style hints that it was fired in the home-kiln of a canyon dweller. A delicious starapple, covered in countless crystalline spines. Once the spines are chipped away, the inner flesh is moist and delicious. Fracti fork at the extremities and assume a brilliant purple hue. Thick stalk, plump cap. It provides shade to aphids of the right stature.  Ingredients: aadvark, abdomen, Aborigine...~J211  Tough, nutritous strips of barkbiter flesh. Tough, nutritious strips of dried bear flesh. A strip of smoked boar flesh.~J211 Smoked strips of mashed beetle leg.~J211 A smoked strip of croc flesh.~J211 Smoked strips of crab meat.~J211 A strip of smoked goat flesh. Dried strips of worm segment. They smell like clay and berries. Strips of smoked scorpiock meat.   A knot of bark, swollen with moisture and culled from the watervine. The gift of Agraria. Sweet starapples were mashed, set over an open flame, left out to cool, and jarred for later use. Bits of stringy pulp lay suspended in the fruity aether. The spiny fruit of fracti were mashed, set over an open flame, left out to cool, and jarred for later use. Bits of spiny pulp lay suspended in the fruity aether. Bunched wafers reaped from the moisture-sucking watervine plant and bound by twine. Plucked from the dirt, they live their new lives wading in the brine. Plucked from a tree, they live their new lives wading in the brine. Calefaction was ground in a mortar, simmered in brine, and congealed. Salt has blanched the prism of colors out of the cuts of coiled meat, but a tinge of the smell of smoke remains. Spooled thread cut from the dual-dimensional hearth-mesh of a phase spider. Weeks old salt crystals line the fluted valleys of a wet stalk. Weeks old salt crystals huddle in the stem's elbowed forks. Air-shunting arciforms were ground in a mortar, simmered in brine, and congealed. The scutum was scraped dry, smashed, and ground. Bits of the tick were squeezed of its magnetic lifeblood and vialed. A plump, ripe cucumber. It's heavier than it looks. A brown-spotted, ripe banana. A delicious taco, wrapped in thin paper. A massive tangle of woody roots and limbs, covered in a dense scale of sharply edged bark plates. A massive tangle of woody roots and limbs, covered in a dense scale of sharply edged bark plates. A massive tree sprouting enormous hands of bananas.  Powder coats the skin of the spots on its colossal cap. Its stalk is trunk-like. It takes its pigment from the sap that weeps nearby. Nature bequeathed a dandy cap atop the slender, bowed stalk. Gills pucker on its underside. It takes its pigment from the sap that weeps nearby. Nature bequeathed a dandy cap atop the slender, bowed stalk. Gills pucker on its underside. It takes its pigment from the sap that weeps nearby. A tangled nest of roots spill through the earth. The bark is splintered into pointy spines. The leaves are greasy and stinking. A tangled nest of roots spill through the earth. The bark is splintered into pointy spines. A tangled nest of roots spill through the earth. The bark is splintered into pointy spines. A particluarly prickly peano patch. A particluarly prickly peano patch. A particluarly prickly peano patch. Starapples hang from ashen branches, motes of luscious, red light in a bleached tableau. Starapples hang from ashen branches, motes of luscious, red light in a bleached tableau. Long, golden fronds unfurl when the desert wind moistens. Pieces of its bark, collatted into tiny, interlocked plates, are chewed off. A flake of witchwood bark; the inside shimmers with a silvery light, and smells faintly of myrrh. A rubber tree. Very chewy. Tiny coral petals sprout from the top of a flimsy stem. The hoof of a wildebeest, be it carbon or chrome, has crushed its siblings and spread into acidic fibers into the soil. Children cry at the crisp snip of a yuckwheat stem, as they have for hundreds of years. They bawl, and flail, and writhe from their mothers' grasps, deaf to reassurances of the plant's medical potency. Snipped and crushed, the stem tastes acidic on their tongues and their faces contort in children's agony. But they sleep better at night, so their mothers say. The stencil on the tin depicts an animal with claws, or are they hooves? Snoods (or horns? antlers?) pucker its nose and brow. Shaggy, knotted fur, or ruffled feathers, sheath it from the heat (or cold). Philosophers like to distill things into their essences. When a pedagogue walks his student through a vineyard, he points to the rustling leaves, the crushed grass, the empty sky, and he asks the student what is essential about each of them. Unbeknownst to both teacher and student, tucked away in a forgotten corner of the world, such an essential berry grows. Salt gathers in its furrows. It's knotted with moisture-swollen wafers in place of leaves. The frayed fibers of a watervine. Girthy pilings of fibrous salt-rot stake out these pools of brine. They belong to no one. A nebula of leaves pulsates as the hosts of insects inside buzz and swarm. A nebula of leaves pulsates as the hosts of insects inside buzz and swarm. Its roots look like a wax colonnade melted into a maze and resolidified. Its roots look like a wax colonnade melted into a maze and resolidified. The strands glisten with a frothing film. The strands glisten with a frothing film. An ancient, bronze coin with a square cut from its center. Time has furnished it with a turquoise tarnish.~J211 A silver shekel stamped with the profile of King Haberdash.~J211 A platinum shekel stamped with the image of the Very Old Bird.~J211 Nary a scholar knows who composes the Annals of Qud or when the chronicling began. But the Quantivists devised a way to entangle their own pages with the offical ledger, allowing them to insert themselves into the histories in a favorable light. A few such pages remain. Nary a scholar knows who composes the Annals of Qud or when the chronicling began. But the Quantivists devised a way to entangle their own pages with the offical ledger, allowing them to insert themselves into the histories in a favorable light. A few such pages remain. Sheets of flayed, stretched goatskin stuck together -- and written upon -- with kid blood.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 Sheets of flayed, stretched goatskin stuck together -- and written upon -- with kid blood.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 This is a sheet of loose leaf paper with fine lines printed in orthogonal coordination. It seems to have been torn from a binder.  This is a sheet of loose parchment rolled into a scroll and sealed with the wax mark of a maker. An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 Several sheets of tattered, age-stained parchment bound together at the margins by some sort of glue.~J211 Several sheets of tattered, age-stained parchment bound together by a strand of kelp from a distant reef.~J211 A voluminous tome whose pages are bound between two slabs of waxed wood.~J211 A voluminous tome whose pages are bound between two slabs of waxed wood.~J211 A voluminous tome whose pages are bound between two slabs of waxed wood.~J211 A voluminous tome whose pages are bound between two slabs of waxed wood.~J211 A sheaf of lined, blue paper sewn together with silk thread.~J211 A depiction of an arching, gear-driven machine has been meticulously tooled onto the cover of this chrome-tanned leather bible of the Mechanimists.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 An unadorned codex of goatskin vellum.~J211 This opaline, phosphorescent globe fits into the palm of a human hand and glows with the light of auroras absorbed eons ago.~J211 This opaline, phosphorescent globe glows with the light of auroras absorbed eons ago. It floats about preternaturally.~J211 This opaline, phosphorescent globe glows with the light of auroras absorbed eons ago. It floats about preternaturally.~J211 A length of brinestalk wrapped in oil-soddened cloth.~J211 A luminous mote of glowmoth dust. An amber flame into which life is breathed through a psychic wick.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A large camel bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended with a strap of intestine.~J211 An aluminium jug sheathed in an olive green cloth.~J211 An aluminium jug sheathed in an olive green cloth.~J211 An aluminium jug sheathed in an olive green cloth.~J211 An aluminium jug sheathed in an olive green cloth.~J211 An aluminium jug sheathed in an olive green cloth.~J211 An aluminium jug sheathed in an olive green cloth.~J211 A goat's bladder knotted at the bottom and suspended by a strap of intestine.~J211 A primitive club hewn from wood.~J211 A sturdy staff of brinestalk.~J211 A long stick hewn from brinestalk and shaped at the top into a crook.~J211 A knobbed bronze head atop a wooden shaft.~J211 The iron head of this mace bears six mail-rending flanges.~J211 A long hammer with a polished steel head.~J211 A long hammer with a massive, polished steel head.~J211 A knobbed steel head atop a steel shaft.~J211 A fist-sized snail shell coiled in soft spirals. It is blackened with soot and stinks of sulfur.~J211 The hoary, bowing horn of a wizened mangoat, wind-etched and gilded with scarlet tassles.~J211 A gnarled, acacia staff atop which is set a small orb of primordial amber.~J211 A mallet with a hefty, carbide head.~J211 A maul with a hefty, carbide head.~J211 A ball-peen hammer used to forge carbide.~J211 A massive ball-peen hammer used to forge carbide.~J211 A large shard of dusky fullerite welded to a steel shaft.~J211 A massive shard of dusky fullerite welded to a steel shaft.~J211 A massive raw geode of crysteel welded to an iron haft. This humongous skull of a rhinox is made of some of the hardest organic materials known to man. A massive shaft of steel has been driven through the maw and welded to the interior of the skull, producing an enormous maul. A cube of ursteel, bound to a light but unbreakable plastic handle. A cube of ursteel, bound to a light but unbreakable plastic handle. A huge maul, apparently drop forged of a single, solid cast of metal. Its surface swims when viewed out of the corner of your eye. A huge maul, apparently drop forged of a single, solid cast of metal. Its surface swims when viewed out of the corner of your eye. A telescoping, slate-colored rod with a knob on the head.~J211 A flanged rod of slate grey metal. A crudely constructed metal knife. A crudely constructed metal knife. A crudely constructed metal knife. A crudely constructed metal knife. With a wavy blade, the desert kris is a common weapon of the desert men. A short, pitted blade of iron. A curved knife. A short steel dagger. A sharp, folding steel knife. A long, thin knife of steel. A sharp, massive steel cleaver. A thin blade of blue-grey metal. A thin blade of blue-grey metal. A thin blade of blue-grey metal. A splinter of finely chipped obsidian, set in a sturdy hilt. A solid shank of metal rippling with bright blue veins. A blade of veined, folded carbide sheathed in a leather wrist strap. A fractured, razor sharp slab of matte black material. A splinter of gleaming green crystal, bound to a wooden haft. A dagger made of glinting ursteel. A dagger who's dark red blade writhes organically, as if it hungers to lunge. A light sword meant for close combat. A light sword meant for close combat. A light sword meant for close combat. A mid-sized sword made of cold blue-grey metal. A mid-sized sword made of grey metal, shot through with livid blue veins. A light sword made of marbled, unbreakable black metal. A thin sword made of luminescent green crystal. A rapier-like blade of shining ursteel. A wide, short sword made of red metal that gently undulates when seen out of the corner of your eye. A short shimmering blue blade extends from a dense black plastic hand-grip.

When charged, this weapon's penetration value is equal to the defender's armor value. This wood-gripped hilt emits a thin, terse, undulous beam of pale green light, whose intensity is such that it may cut away steel. This wood-gripped hilt emits a long and narrow beam of pale green light, whose intensity is such that it may cut away steel. A massive metal strut torn from some ancient assemblage. A piece of tattered cloth is wrapped around the strut to serve as a handle. A long wooden shaft, tipped in a chunk of sharpened metal. A wooden shaft with a leather hand hold, topped with a wickedly curved metal blade. A simple wood-cutting axe. A long, flexible shaft topped with a wicked curved blade. Used to flay the tough watervine hides. A potentially dangerous weapon in skilled hands. A wooden shaft with a leather hand hold, topped with a wickedly curved metal blade. An ornate wooden shaft with a leather-wrapped handle, topped with a glistening steel blade. An ornate wooden shaft with a leather-wrapped handle, topped with a glistening steel blade. A simple axe with a sharp steel head. An ornate wooden shaft with a leather-wrapped handle, topped with a glistening steel blade. The end of the pommel hosts a glittering opal. A long, flexible shaft topped with a wicked curved blade. Used to flay the tough watervine hides. A potentially dangerous weapon in skilled hands. A thin, yet strong, crescent of grey-blue metal, bound to a strong wooden shaft. A strong, crescent of grey-blue metal, bound to a long strong wooden shaft. An elegant half-circle of veined grey-blue metal, bound to a strong steel shaft. An elegant half-circle of veined grey-blue metal, bound to a long steel shaft. A huge, sharpened wedge of fullerite, bound to a massive steel haft. A huge, sharpened wedge of fullerite, bound to a massive steel haft. A massive, sharpened slab of green crysteel, bound by wrapped wire to a long steel shaft. A massive, sharpened slab of green crysteel, bound by wrapped wire to an extended steel shaft. An axe of ursteel, forged as a single massive piece of metal. A two-handed axe of ursteel, forged as a single massive piece of meal. A wicked crescent blade, who's metal seeths as if with contained rage. A wicked crescent blade, who's metal seeths as if with contained rage. A stiff metal staff, with a spiked ball hanging from a short chain A length of metal chain. A plastic handle with a retractable, weighted metal cord inside. A colossal jackhammer. A basic, well-worn sword. A hulking sword, built to cleave opponents in two. A sharp iron sword. A sharp iron sword. A sharp, polished steel sword. A goat-sized beetle with a striated, onyx shell.~J211 A sharp, polished steel sword. A sharp, polished steel sword. A curved sword with a dull grey-blue metal blade. A curved sword with a dull grey-blue metal blade. A curved sword with a grey metal blade, lined with hundreds of thin, shining blue veins. A curved sword with a grey metal blade, lined with hundreds of thin, shining blue veins. A sword with a matte black, unbreakable blade, spidered with silvery veins. A sword with a matte black, unbreakable blade, spidered with silvery veins. A long, thin blade of ancient, chipped green crystal. A long, thin blade of ancient, chipped green crystal. A pristine blade of brilliant ursteel. A pristine blade of brilliant ursteel. A sinuous blade of wriething red metal. A sinuous blade of wriething red metal. A long, humming white blade extends an arm's length from a dense black plastic hand-grip.
          
When charged, this weapon's penetration value is equal to the defender's armor value. A curved sword with a grey metal blade, lined with hundreds of thin, shining blue veins. A curved sword with a grey metal blade, lined with hundreds of thin, shining blue veins. A curved sword with a grey metal blade, lined with hundreds of thin, shining blue veins. This simple magazine-loaded rifle is a common hunting gun in the tribes of men. This simple muzzle-loading rifle is a common hunting gun in the tribes of men. A composite carbine with a banana-shaped magazine. A composite carbine of exceptional craftbearship. This sturdy bolt action rifle has a long, expertly rifled barrel. This simple muzzle-loading musket is inaccurate, but is sometimes used by the desert tribes. This is a sylphlike rifle of plastic the color of slate. Its barrel is composed of slim, telescoped cylinders and its grip is wider than it is long. A motly cacophany of short wire loops surrounds a long metal rail. An ungainly stock and magazine are mounted to the side. Atop this russet rifle stands a square plate-scope inset with a large ocular lens. The sight through the lens distorts as the gun tilts, but the vector drawn of the shot remains unchanged. Cold to the touch, this sleek rifle bears a long, slender chrome barrel. Tendrils of icy vapor coil out of the muzzle. A rifled prism that refracts and refocuses light to tunnel things toward its wielder. Sophists call it a 'here ray'. This is a basic single-barrel chain-loaded rifle, powered by a simple, self-winding flywheel. A rugged 6-shot pistol, the borderlands revolver is the workhorse of the borderlands gunslingers. A rugged 6-shot pistol, the borderlands revolver is the workhorse of the borderlands gunslingers. The craftsmanship of this pistol worked in chrome and brass is breathtaking -- grips of kingswood wrap your palm around themselves, the hammer is contoured to your thumb with infinitesimal precision, the eye of the barrel leers at your target. Twines of withered ivy are engraved along its frame and down its barrel stained with age and blood.
          
+1 Ego

Critical hits scored with this weapon bestow a +4 bonus to its penetration rolls.

Whenever you discharge a full barrel of ammo with this weapon, you automatically score a critical hit with the last shot you fire. A cylinder-less pistol with acrylic grips. A handheld machine gun with a narrow barrel and an extended magazine. The pistol is engraved with watervine hemp and encircled in saltstone. On the grip is an image of a nomad and knight in saltstone. The knight is striking down the nomad. Several mantling amber orbs have been soldered onto the barrel jacket of this plastic pistol. Golden wires sprout from the orbs and disappear into tiny cracks in the pistol's chassis. This basic shotgun can be deadly at very close range, but is very inaccurate at even moderate distances. A stockless, pump-action shotgun of jet black. A handful of pellets encased in a thick wax-paper and plastic shell. A lump of lead. A humming curve of metal, a dim beam of light connects the endpoints of the crescent. When fingers are drawn through the beam, a blazing arrow of energy springs from the weapon. A handheld grenade launcher with a steel, girthy barrel. This is a heavy weapon. A basic shoulder-mounted missile launcher. This is a heavy weapon. A basic missile, tipped with a highly explosive warhead. A massive energy cannon. The barrel of this 'pistol' is a small, transparent tube. Inside it you can see a small, twirling mote of purest blackness, pulsing with entrancing beauty and menace. A simple recurve bow made from the stiff leg-bones of a salthopper. Some tinker has fastened wheels to the limbs of this bow. Cables work to accentuate the archer's strength, mechanically flexing the limbs further inward as the string is drawn. A short wooden arrow, fletched with glowcrow feathers. A steel-headed arrow. Reds and oranges swirl in the bulbous arrowhead. Ignition is a notch away. A flame-throwing apparatus. This is a heavy weapon. A flame-throwing apparatus. This is a heavy weapon. A thick shell of bone and chitin, the carapace covers a majority of the body with its armor plates. Long, slim, keratinous spikes that present a menacing facade to attackers. Long, slim, keratinous spikes that present a menacing facade to attackers. Long, slim, keratinous spikes that present a menacing facade to attackers. A pair of massive, feathered wings. An elaborate, flap-powered contraption of rusted bronze and parasols. This pair of prosthetic hands are attached to the ends of two telescoping, multi-jointed chrome rods which fasten into a thin plastic case designed to be worn on the back. A chitinous, segmented tail tapering into a curved barb slick with venom. A pair of massive, curling horns. They can deliver devastating gore attacks to enemies. Iron hooks can be fastened to residual leg limbs, providing a kind of graceless, scraping locomotion for their wearer. Some facial appendages are so sightly, scattering light like the prismatic loam or curving toward geometric bliss. But there are many others. Huge spade-like claws as hard as any natural substance (and many unnatural). Ghostly, flickering flames drift up from the hands. Ghostly mist drift up from the hands. The air in this area shimmers with intense heat, as if filled with an invisible fire. A frigid, cloying mist hangs in the air. A small wooden shield meant to be strapped to the arm, leaving the hands free. A small iron shield meant to be strapped to the arm, leaving the hands free. A small steel shield meant to be strapped to the arm, leaving the hands free. A large shield, meant to be secured to your hand. A large shield, meant to be secured to your hand. A black aegis bearing the cross of the Putus Templar. Rust stripes this ageless, flat-faced buckler. Painted on its face is the coat of arms of an archaic house -- white runic script on a field of crimson.
          
+1 Ego

You may activate this item to conjure a force field in front of you. Robots will often be unable to advance toward you while the force field is active. A frock of slate cloth. An ornately sewn mantle of slate cloth. A sewn mantle of chromaic fabric ornately embroidered with a thousand stitches. A leather lash and handle. Tiny glyphs are inscribed on each exterior face of the handheld box. Tiny glyphs are inscribed on each exterior face of the handheld box. Tiny glyphs are inscribed on each exterior face of the handheld box. Tiny glyphs are inscribed on each exterior face of the handheld box. Perch fish nursed in the aquarium silos of a vacated sector were netted and skinned into strips. Those strips were tanned with chrome and stitched into this vest. This frock is knit from imperishable uuflax stolen from an archway garden during a union dispute between the weavers' guild and the high-strata window makers. Wrested from the liminal tiers of a shale-toppled spire, this animal skull was handed over to an etcher for decoration. An imperishable uuflax sheet was torn from the elephantine spools in the market and sewn into a headdress. Masks maintained their sacred status in the lives of the Eaters, even as they lost the capacity to stitch them into their own faces. This one is no different. An imperishable uuflax sheet was torn from the elephantine spools in the market and stitched into a talma. Perch fish leather was worn by fishworkers in the earlier sultanate, but by the time of *sultan* it was prized by gentlefolk. This pair is exquisitely crafted. While the steeple fires raged below, brave arconauts sank into the glowing depths to retrieve valuables. When their corpses were found, the sand in their pockets had been blown into glass beads. This bracelet was made from such beads. Perch fish leather boots, finest make. They were either stolen from the crypt of an older Eater or fashioned by a cordwainer to look like it. A chipped-off chunk of Spindle, magnetized by the fall to earth, orbits its chosen warden. Far from the soaring aegides of earlier periods, this concave ward was merely bent and polished on a municipal lathe. Chrome flakes fell like dander from broken belfries into the trash sea. They were scooped up by orefishers and traded up the silk chain. This shirt is fashioned from the flakes twisted into rings. Early period Eaters modded their genes to grow ur-filament hair. Later, once that technology was lost, graverobbers sheared it from their cadaverous scalps. In the time of *sultan*, it was called finery. This vest was knit from the stuff. Early Eaters had enlarged their skulls for cosmetic reasons. By the time of *sultan*, the high minaret dwellers took to wearing them as helms. This one is exquisitely decorated. Early period Eaters modded their genes to grow ur-filament hair. Later, once that technology was lost, graverobbers sheared it from their cadaverous scalps. In the time of *sultan*, it was called finery. This hat was knit from the stuff. Masks maintained their sacred status in the lives of the Eaters, even as they lost the capacity to stitch them into their own faces. This one is no different. This cloak was knit from strands ur-filament hair robbed from the graves of early Eaters. Perch fish leather was worn by fishworkers in the earlier sultanate, but by the time of *sultan* it was prized by gentlefolk. This pair is exquisitely crafted. While the steeple fires raged below, brave arconauts sank into the glowing depths to retrieve valuables. When their corpses were found, the sand in their pockets had been blown into glass beads. This bracelet was made from such beads. Perch fish leather boots, finest make. They were either stolen from the crypt of an older Eater or fashioned by a cordwainer to look like it. A chipped-off chunk of Spindle, magnetized by the fall to earth, orbits its chosen warden. Far from the soaring aegides of earlier periods, this concave ward was merely bent and polished on a municipal lathe. This suit of armor is made of many large plates of forged metal over a layer of chain-mail. The whole mass is stiched to an under-garment of leather and padding. A bodysuit made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to the torso. Early Eaters had enlarged their skulls for cosmetic reasons. By the time of *sultan*, the high minaret dwellers took to wearing them as helms. This one is exquisitely decorated. A cap made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to the scalp. A veil cut from a thin, woven fabric. A tough leather cloak. Perch fish leather was worn by fishworkers in the earlier sultanate, but by the time of *sultan* it was prized by gentlefolk. This pair is exquisitely crafted. Perch fish leather was worn by fishworkers in the earlier sultanate, but by the time of *sultan* it was prized by gentlefolk. This pair is exquisitely crafted. These beads were skillfully dyed and strung together. A pair of boots, made of chain-mail sewn over thick leather backing. Slippers made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to your feet. This opaline, phosphorescent globe glows with the light of auroras absorbed eons ago. It floats about preternaturally.~J211 A large shield, meant to be secured to your hand. This suit of armor is made of overlapping slabs of thin-blue metal, welded to a chain-mail undergarment. A vest cut from an elastyne mesh and reinforced with plastic. Early Eaters had enlarged their skulls for cosmetic reasons. By the time of *sultan*, the high minaret dwellers took to wearing them as helms. This one is exquisitely decorated. This stretchy, foam fabric hardens when pressure is applied to it. A veil cut from a thin, woven fabric. A tough leather cloak. Thick, banded carbide gauntlets. This stretchy, foam fabric hardens when pressure is applied to it. These beads were skillfully dyed and strung together. A pair of leather boots onto which several carbide bands have been riveted. This stretchy, foam fabric hardens when pressure is applied to it. This opaline, phosphorescent globe glows with the light of auroras absorbed eons ago. It floats about preternaturally.~J211 A large shield, meant to be secured to your hand. A pustulent girdle that slowly undulates with latent vitality.
          
While equipped you take half damage from poison. A wrist-held display device that gives a detailed readout of its surroundings. A wrist-held force-field emitter. A plastic band with a recessed button on a chrome faceplate.
          
          "You think this is the real =name=? It is." Witchwood twigs parred and twisted into a decorative wreath. A comely, multicolored shawl sure to distinguish its wearer from the rest of the pack. A soft-soled shoe worked from boar hide. A pair of cracked leather sandals. These beads were skillfully dyed and strung together by a hillside native. These beads were skillfully dyed and strung together by a hillside native. These beads were skillfully dyed and strung together by a hillside native. These beads were skillfully dyed and strung together by a hillside native. Colorful rings. This filthy, beaten hat was drawn low over countless wearers' eyes. A delver's vest covered in a dense tangle of webbing and a plethora of pockets. This is a very fancy smiling sun mask. It smells faintly of ancient, dried grapes. This is a highly decorative frowning moon mask. Gazing at it makes you feel somewhat sleepy. This is a spectacularly crafted sun and moon mask. It makes you feel uneasy. A copper ring bespattered with worm blood. Ageless dark, stained robes. Dark, soot-stained robes. A long, hooded cloak white-washed from years of exposure to the desert sun. A long, twisted braid of shock-white ape hair. A shawl woven of fine, scarlet silk. A huge pile of stinking, lice-infested animal hide. This simple tunic is woven of stiff plant fiber. It's surprisingly comfortable. This airy robe is woven from fine cloth. A kilt woven of thick plaid wool. This toga is fashioned of crude, roughly woven textile. This toga has been well-used, as togas are wont to be. This thick leather apron is covered in sear marks. This well-worn set of overalls are made from sturdy cloth, and covered in small pockets. This suit of armor is made of thick overlapping slabs of rock-hard bark, sewn to a coarse, itchy plant-fiber undergarment. It smells pretty good. This suit of leather armor has been cured until it is rock hard. This flexible suit of armor is made of woven vines that have incredible strength. This suit of hard leather armor is covered in metal studs. A utilitarian leather skullcap. A close-fitting hood, woven of crimson fabric. A slender cut of brass painted and intricately worked into the shape of a poisonous serpent. Hard leather gloves worn by the moisture farmers of Joppa to protect their hands from the briary watervine fronds. A sturdy set of leather gloves. A well-worn pair of leather boots. A hideous, plated skull with gaping beak. This suit of armor is made of dozens of thick rings of metal, which have been sewn into a padded leather undershirt. A protective shirt of tiny, interlocked metal links. A well-worn pair of leather boots. A decorative clay pot. A pair of metal boots, with thick magnetic soles. A tough leather cloak. A cloak made of dark fabric, which hangs with supernatural heavyness even in a strong wind. A salt-spangled crimson banner of the Issachari nomad people. A veil cut from a thin, flame-retardant fabric woven by the Issachari nomad tribes. Wicked spikes jut from these iron black gauntlets. Thick, banded steel gauntlets. Thick, banded steel gauntlets. Thick, banded carbide gauntlets. A pearl fastens these well-crafted sandals. The natives believe they belonged to the nymphs who inhabit the river beneath Red Rock. A mote of gentle light darts about.

Emits light in radius 4.
Extinguished permanently when unequipped. A brass compass fastened to a leather wristband. A large, moss-colored pack equipped with shoulder straps and a hip belt. This vest is cut from the chitinous exoskeleton molted by Qud's jungle puma; thick, flexible rings the color of tree bark protect the torso of its wearer. A cap made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to the scalp. A swath of verdant forest loam. These skin-tight gloves occasionally jolt the hands into performing with added strength and dexterity. Slippers made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to your feet. A pair of boarskin gloves trimmed with the alabaster fur of an albino ape. Gloves made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to your hands. A pair of gloves, made of chain-mail. A pair of boots, made of chain-mail sewn over thick leather backing. A pair of leather boots onto which several steel bands have been riveted. A pair of leather boots onto which several carbide bands have been riveted. The hollowed-out, xanthous shell of the electric snail armors the head while only minorly impairing vision. The moss-strewn antlers of some great elk appear to have grown from atop this ageless, leather helm. The moss-strewn antlers of some great elk appear to have grown from atop this ageless, leather helm. A conical helm of polished steel. A leather hat with ear flaps lined with the alabaster fur of an albino ape. A cloak cut from the furry, alabaster hide of an albino ape. A square, black cap with a gold tassle. A heavy coif of densly interlinked chain-mail. A bodysuit made of a stretchy black fabric that sticks to the torso. This suit of armor is made of many large plates of forged metal over a layer of chain-mail. The whole mass is stiched to an under-garment of leather and padding. A well-worn pair of leather boots. A leather strap with an affixed lamp. A pair of oddly shaped goggles. A sturdy helmet, with built in illumnination. A piece of thick burlap, impregnated with vinewood sap, helping to protect against noxious gas and vapor. A durable mask of plastic, fitted with a simple filter that provides good protection against dangerous gas and vapor. An oddly elongated, magnifying monocle. It has a fitted leather head-strap. Vision-correcting lenses on thin wire frames. A convex, translucent lens the size of a man's torso and suspended in thin air. A starless, triangular prism of black glass. Bees crawl over the back-mounted slatted rack. A few more dart around nearby. Some clever tinker has fitted a spring-loaded tendon around each of these boots to mimic the gait of a large, sprinting bird.
          
 As long as you have worn this item for at least 100 rounds, you sprint at thrice your movement speed. You may walk freely over webs. A vest cut from an elastyne mesh and reinforced with plastic. This skin-tight flesh suit is made of elastic rubber. This stretchy, foam fabric hardens when pressure is applied to it. This stretchy, foam fabric hardens when pressure is applied to it.
          
You may apply injectors for no energy cost. This stretchy, foam fabric hardens when pressure is applied to it. This stretchy, foam fabric hardens when pressure is applied to it. A knitted sleeve that warms as you wear it. This stretchy, foam fabric hardens when pressure is applied to it. This suit of armor is made of overlapping slabs of thin-blue metal, welded to a chain-mail undergarment. A cloak of unrippable synthetic fabric. The fine, decorated cloak of a Ibulian Praetorian. This suit is made of extremely durable, rubbery, dark material. It is lined with small pouches which slowly filter water that the suit collects from your sweaty, overworked body. A helmet, camoflauged for the deep jungles. A pearl fastens these well-crafted sandals. The natives believe they belonged to the nymphs who inhabit the river beneath Red Rock. A coat of several frayed, varicolored patches stitched together. A densly camoflauged leather jerkin. The teleprojector is a fluted visor of fused tungsten filament. Two antennae coil out of the temples. This suit of armor is made of overlapping slabs of dense, durable plastic which have been bound to an under-layer of leather. Animated birds flap and shift over the cloak's folds and ruffles. A myriad of species, sizes and colors. This suit of armor is forged from massive slabs of black, unbreakable material. This suit of armor is made of hundreds of small chips of fullerite, bound to a hard leather cuirass. A dark, visored helmet made of jet black fullerite. A dark, visored helmet made of jet black fullerite. This vest of densly woven fibre, the strands dug right up from the ancient, stinking ground; is light and flexible, but nearly indestructable. Heavy, plated boots made of welded slabs of fullerite. Articulated gauntlets, made of many linked rings of fullerite. Slate tubes assembled to scaffold the human form. This is a billowing cloak of material is so light as to feel totally weightless when held. Any light illuminating it scintillates into a thousand rainbow motes, dazzling the eye with its brilliance, and causing the tunic to seem to swim in midair. This protective coat is made if thousands of interlinked crescents of crysteel; it is light and flexible, and much more protective than steel. A lightweight cap of shiny foil. A colossal, clenched fist gilded with the blood of a demigod. A colossal, clenched fist gilded with the blood of a demigod. A colossal, clenched fist gilded with the blood of a demigod. An array of tinkering utensils clang against tin: tweezers, a tiny hammer, pliers, inverted pliers, glass marbles, and three wrenches.
          
This item increases the likelihood of recovering additional bits when you disassemble an artifact. Its head is a shard of fullerite, pointed on one end and flat on the other. Its handle is a pole of fiberglass wrapped in fraying wood. A toboggan repels above the ground and gently rocks on an ethereal wave. It's encircled by a corona of wafting dust. Tiny glyphs are inscribed on each exterior face of the handheld box. Though contrarians still puzzle over their meaning, most of Qud's prominent linguist cults have converged on a single interpretation: 'For When Both Nature and Architects Have Failed You'. One brass pull ring separates you from the promise of those words. Tiny glyphs are inscribed on each exterior face of the handheld box. Though contrarians still puzzle over their meaning, most of Qud's prominent linguist cults have converged on a single interpretation: 'For When Both Nature and Architects Have Failed You'. One brass pull ring separates you from the promise of those words. What sort of giant manthing carried a forty-stone chrome satchel on their shoulder? The answer is not known. But a clue is stenciled on the side of the satchel: a drill pointing downward into a well. Spurred on by their aspiration for a fully autonomous, climate-controlled banana grove, Research and Development at Hegemonic Fruit devised the neuro animator, which knits a nervous system into the inorganic material of inanimate objects. Originally, full sentience was their product diffentiator, but within months cheaper alternates like Spray-a-Brain came to dominate the market. "SPRAY-A-BRAIN: If these walls could talk..." A small crystalline disk, with a recessed button on top. A small crystalline disk, with a recessed button on top. A small crystalline disk, with a recessed button on top. A heavy metal sphere, which hums quietly. A plastic disk that shines with rainbow light. A plastic disk that shines with rainbow light. A plastic disk that shines with rainbow light. "Surgeon Hegemon's Warning: Do Not Use on Human Hearts" Some tinker devised the spray bottle to dispense a liquid concoction that would have otherwise glued the skin of his hands together. A pink liquid gel eerily kneads the side of a glass tube. It hungers for freedom. A chalky white pellet with the letters "HH" inscribed in tiny script. A roll of gauze, suited to staunch bleeding. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A small crossbow with a wide barrel to hold darts. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A slender metal tube, used to deliver various tonics directly into the bloodstream. A corpse. A corpse. A slender crystalline disk containing blueprints. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small piece of scrap. A small, strange little metal trinket. A small box of wax crayons. Odd metal tubes. Almost indistinguishable from a real tree, this synthetic tree adds a natural touch to its surroundings. A small, uneven nugget of copper. A small, shining nugget of pure silver. A tiny, gleaming chunk of pure gold. A tiny gemstone. The shadows of tiny nebula are crushed into the contours of a small stone. A thousand sunrays are refracted through the prism of a small stone. The black bellows of the earth are etched into red polish. It spent millions of years tucked into the folds of earthly sediment. Then it was cracked from its cocoon, a brilliant butterfly. Oceans reflecting the skies of a thousand fractal worlds are tucked into a geometric volume. Impurities in the stone mother verdant things, the pattern of life repeated on a smaller scale. It hurled through the void impacted in a black rock and slammed, shining and free, on our world. A small, strange little metal trinket. A large, strange metal trinket. A small, strange little metal trinket. A small, strange little metal trinket. A length of copper wire. A length of copper wire. A length of copper wire. A length of copper wire. A length of copper wire. When unobstructed, this copper sphere accelerates toward ceiling and sky. A cube that seems to have only four corners. Strange heiroglyphics cover each side alongside of crude scenes of a figure using a club to strike down a horned figure holding a time-piece of ancient make. Here lies the metallic husk of a defunct waydroid. It's been stripped of its valuables: copper wire, LED lights, and chrome bearings. It beeps and whirs no longer. Here lies a waydroid in unknowing slumber. Might a willing tinker give it life again? A small metallic block, this is the most common energy cell seen in the wastes. A small metallic block, this is the most common energy cell seen in the wastes. A shimmering silver cube, this cell will slowly recharge if left in sunlight. The small size of this cube belies its massive heft. It can power an artifact for much longer than a standard chem cell. This jet black wafer hums quietly, and seems to quiver with potential energy. A gorgeous, filament fractal. The filament from which this web is spun shimmers as it phases through the several dimensions of physical space. A pool of liquid. Follow that yonder brocade. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. A pool of liquid. The surface of this sphere is a window to another place, wrought in frosted-glass facets that seethe, almost imperceptably, in the corners of your vision. The surface of this sphere is a window to another place, wrought in frosted-glass facets that seethe, almost imperceptably, in the corners of your vision. The surface of this sphere is a window to another place, wrought in frosted-glass facets that seethe, almost imperceptably, in the corners of your vision. A simple portal. Six crossed brinestalk pickets are attached to the fence by an iron latch. The wide, grated platform has largely escaped the tarnishing touch of time. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A crystal waterpipe with several smoking stems. Oven of god. Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the thick clay oven, and with it comes the smell of scrumptious food. Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the thick clay oven, and with it comes the smell of hot starapple jam and toasted matz. Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the round mud oven, and with it comes the smell of mulled cider and brined mushrooms. Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the bright stone oven, and with it comes the smell of hot spine fruit jam and roasted tail. Warmth radiates from the crackling fire of the dark electric oven, and with it comes the smell of bitter yuckwheat and boiled plasma. A basket woven from marsh reed. A basket woven from marsh reed. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A chewed and scratched cage of wire. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. Teeth, shell, and bones were blackened into stasis by the earthy gunk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. Wood planks nailed at orthogonal angles. Dust sleeps on the paper jackets of the glyph-cloths. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. The remains of a locker chewed and eaten by corrosion. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A pile of rocky rubble. Scattered debris. Solid, well-packed dirt. A wall of thickly-thatched, woody jungle vines. A wall of crumbling shale. A holographic representation of a wall of crumbling shale. A wall of crumbling shale with agate deposits. A wall of crumbling shale with topaz deposits. A wall of crumbling shale with jasper deposits. A wall of crumbling shale with amethyst deposits. A wall of crumbling shale with sapphire deposits. A wall of crumbling shale with emerald deposits. A wall of meteorite with peridot deposits. A small, but heavy, stone. Wax, secreted by plants and cooled into a block. Wax, secreted by plants and cooled into a block. A wall of crumbling limestone. A wall of solid granite. Cerulean clouds assume their crystal habit: cubes nested inside and out. Why does Moghra'yi conceal this form from the sun? Braids of fibrous plant veins enmesh compacted mud and weep a brackish blood. Fluted columns of prism glass scatter the sight of becoming into a thousand fractured vistas. A wall of smoothed marble. A wall of smoothed marble. A solid block of sturdy concrete. A wall of smoothed marble. A wall of smoothed marble. A wall of smoothed marble.   A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A raised surface of smooth marble surrounds the sacred well. A wall of solid sandstone. A wall of solid sandstone. A shimmering wall of force. A shimmering wall of distorted space-time. A massive wall of ancient fulcrete. The cracks in the wall are fossils of the compressed foamcrete's hexagonal expansion pattern. A wall of chrome tarnished with a turquoise patina. A solid block of sturdy concrete. This is the tanned hide of a pig stretched over two poles of brinestalk. Here are several stripped trunks of sallow brinestalk bonded with mud. Several sharpened trunks of sallow brinestalk were driven into the ground here. Two brinestalk trunks are wedged apart here. The gap isn't wide enough to squeeze through. A canvas wall. A wooden fence. A row of iron palings. A fence of brinestalk pales. A solid wall. This is an exquisitely detailed high relief cut from precious cerulean marble. It depicts the Sacred Joining, as recounted by Shekhinah the Father to the temple high priests. In the early dawn of our universe, the Argent Fathers roamed the timeless aether with inert hearts. There, in the coldest distance of space, they discovered beauty-and-chrome incarnate, the Kasaphescence. Together they wrought machines from Her naked womb to inhabit a hundred earths. In the scene here, the Fathers first approach Her Radiance. They are led by Shekhinah, who occupies a position of prominence. This is a high relief cut with exquisite detail from rare, cerulean marble. It depicts the Edification, as chanted in the Canticles Chromaic. After the Sacred Joining, the Argent Fathers molded the plasmatic metal of the Kasaphescence into edifices fit for inhabitance by mortal folk. They wrought spires onto mountains and arches over rivers. Here, Shekhinah oversees the construction, gazing east upon His new, gleaming world. This is an exquisitely detailed high relief cut from precious cerulean marble. It depicts the Sacred Joining, as recounted by Shekhinah the Father to the temple high priests. In the early dawn of our universe, the Argent Fathers roamed the timeless aether with inert hearts. There, in the coldest distance of space, they discovered beauty-and-chrome incarnate, the Kasaphescence. Together they wrought machines from Her naked womb to inhabit a hundred earths. In the scene here, the Fathers first approach Her Radiance. They are led by Shekhinah, who occupies a position of prominence. This is an exquisitely detailed high relief cut from precious cerulean marble. It depicts the Sacred Joining, as recounted by Shekhinah the Father to the temple high priests. In the early dawn of our universe, the Argent Fathers roamed the timeless aether with inert hearts. There, in the coldest distance of space, they discovered beauty-and-chrome incarnate, the Kasaphescence. Together they wrought machines from Her naked womb to inhabit a hundred earths. In the scene here, the Fathers first approach Her Radiance. They are led by Shekhinah, who occupies a position of prominence. This is an exquisitely detailed high relief cut from precious cerulean marble. It depicts the Sacred Joining, as recounted by Shekhinah the Father to the temple high priests. In the early dawn of our universe, the Argent Fathers roamed the timeless aether with inert hearts. There, in the coldest distance of space, they discovered beauty-and-chrome incarnate, the Kasaphescence. Together they wrought machines from Her naked womb to inhabit a hundred earths. In the scene here, the Fathers first approach Her Radiance. They are led by Shekhinah, who occupies a position of prominence. This is an exquisitely detailed high relief cut from precious cerulean marble. It depicts the Sacred Joining, as recounted by Shekhinah the Father to the temple high priests. In the early dawn of our universe, the Argent Fathers roamed the timeless aether with inert hearts. There, in the coldest distance of space, they discovered beauty-and-chrome incarnate, the Kasaphescence. Together they wrought machines from Her naked womb to inhabit a hundred earths. In the scene here, the Fathers first approach Her Radiance. They are led by Shekhinah, who occupies a position of prominence. This is an exquisitely detailed high relief cut from precious cerulean marble. It depicts the Sacred Joining, as recounted by Shekhinah the Father to the temple high priests. In the early dawn of our universe, the Argent Fathers roamed the timeless aether with inert hearts. There, in the coldest distance of space, they discovered beauty-and-chrome incarnate, the Kasaphescence. Together they wrought machines from Her naked womb to inhabit a hundred earths. In the scene here, the Fathers first approach Her Radiance. They are led by Shekhinah, who occupies a position of prominence. This is an exquisitely detailed high relief cut from precious cerulean marble. It depicts the Sacred Joining, as recounted by Shekhinah the Father to the temple high priests. In the early dawn of our universe, the Argent Fathers roamed the timeless aether with inert hearts. There, in the coldest distance of space, they discovered beauty-and-chrome incarnate, the Kasaphescence. Together they wrought machines from Her naked womb to inhabit a hundred earths. In the scene here, the Fathers first approach Her Radiance. They are led by Shekhinah, who occupies a position of prominence. This is an exquisitely detailed high relief cut from precious cerulean marble. It depicts the Sacred Joining, as recounted by Shekhinah the Father to the temple high priests. In the early dawn of our universe, the Argent Fathers roamed the timeless aether with inert hearts. There, in the coldest distance of space, they discovered beauty-and-chrome incarnate, the Kasaphescence. Together they wrought machines from Her naked womb to inhabit a hundred earths. In the scene here, the Fathers first approach Her Radiance. They are led by Shekhinah, who occupies a position of prominence. This is a high relief cut with exquisite detail from rare, cerulean marble. It depicts the Edification, as chanted in the Canticles Chromaic. After the Sacred Joining, the Argent Fathers molded the plasmatic metal of the Kasaphescence into edifices fit for inhabitance by mortal folk. They wrought spires onto mountains and arches over rivers. Here, Shekhinah oversees the construction, gazing east upon His new, gleaming world. This is a high relief cut with exquisite detail from rare, cerulean marble. It depicts the Edification, as chanted in the Canticles Chromaic. After the Sacred Joining, the Argent Fathers molded the plasmatic metal of the Kasaphescence into edifices fit for inhabitance by mortal folk. They wrought spires onto mountains and arches over rivers. Here, Shekhinah oversees the construction, gazing east upon His new, gleaming world. This is a high relief cut with exquisite detail from rare, cerulean marble. It depicts the Edification, as chanted in the Canticles Chromaic. After the Sacred Joining, the Argent Fathers molded the plasmatic metal of the Kasaphescence into edifices fit for inhabitance by mortal folk. They wrought spires onto mountains and arches over rivers. Here, Shekhinah oversees the construction, gazing east upon His new, gleaming world. This is a high relief cut with exquisite detail from rare, cerulean marble. It depicts the Edification, as chanted in the Canticles Chromaic. After the Sacred Joining, the Argent Fathers molded the plasmatic metal of the Kasaphescence into edifices fit for inhabitance by mortal folk. They wrought spires onto mountains and arches over rivers. Here, Shekhinah oversees the construction, gazing east upon His new, gleaming world. This is a high relief cut with exquisite detail from rare, cerulean marble. It depicts the Edification, as chanted in the Canticles Chromaic. After the Sacred Joining, the Argent Fathers molded the plasmatic metal of the Kasaphescence into edifices fit for inhabitance by mortal folk. They wrought spires onto mountains and arches over rivers. Here, Shekhinah oversees the construction, gazing east upon His new, gleaming world. This is a high relief cut with exquisite detail from rare, cerulean marble. It depicts the Edification, as chanted in the Canticles Chromaic. After the Sacred Joining, the Argent Fathers molded the plasmatic metal of the Kasaphescence into edifices fit for inhabitance by mortal folk. They wrought spires onto mountains and arches over rivers. Here, Shekhinah oversees the construction, gazing east upon His new, gleaming world. This is a high relief cut with exquisite detail from rare, cerulean marble. It depicts the Edification, as chanted in the Canticles Chromaic. After the Sacred Joining, the Argent Fathers molded the plasmatic metal of the Kasaphescence into edifices fit for inhabitance by mortal folk. They wrought spires onto mountains and arches over rivers. Here, Shekhinah oversees the construction, gazing east upon His new, gleaming world. Wooden and chrome poles let weapons rest peacefully. Wooden and chrome poles let guns rest peacefully. Wooden and chrome poles let armor rest peacefully. A mass of giant mushroom flesh. A mass of giant mushroom flesh. A mass of giant mushroom flesh. A mass of giant mushroom flesh. A dusty pile of ash. Ions spun into a euhedral disc on a spinning wheel crystalizer. Aquamarine smoothed into a wheel by deepsea steam vents. A small axe, balanced for throwing. A piece of rock, older than every book. A medium sized rock boulder. A huge piece of rock, older than every idea. A brightly burning campfire. A brightly burning torch in a sconce. A brightly burning torch in a sconce. A brightly lit sconce. A brightly lit sconce. Waxes weeps from the stubborn candles, drips onto the sconces, forms a waxfall through the tiers of bronze. The ashen remnants of an old campfire. A pile of debris. A pile of debris. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. An etched and painted terracotta sign. A pane of transparent glass. A pane of transparent glass. A pane of transparent glass.        Interlinked plates of wafery carbide tessellate into a subcutaneous sheet.

+1 AV Pillowy fiberglass scales tense around a supporting axis. Once installed, they'll unwind and inflate under the skin.

+6 Heat Resistance
+6 Cold Resistance
+6 Electrical Resistance
+6 Acid Resistance A minuscule graphene array that processes optical data against a repository of organic lifeforms.

You gain access to the precise hit point, armor, and dodge values of biological creatures. A minuscule graphene array that processes optical data against a repository of robotic lifeforms and artifacts.

You gain access to the precise hit point, armor, and dodge values of robotic creatures and you automatically identify artifacts. The emitted frequencies of your tiniest bits are synchronized with the standardized band for force emission.    

You can walk through forcefields. Nerve-packed retina scatters incoming radiation and bends light so the irises turn jade.

You gain the toggleable ability to see in the dark. Banded ropes of hydrogel are bundled into one.
          
+6 movespeed Nerve bundles so arranged to stimulate muscles in the arm along a parabolic slide rule.
          
Your throw range is increased by 2.
When you throw something at a target inside your throw range, your throwing accuracy is 100%. Carnal instructions dictate the reformation of the face's bone structure and plump tissue mass into a soft and angelic countenance. Through such thaumaturgy, the people of hoary Ibul, cradled in the breast of a collapsed ice shelf, wander its lamplighted streets in rosy-cheeked disinterest.

+1 Ego The diaphanous dermis throws the circulatory, muscular, and nervous networks into silhouetted relief.

+2 DV Chrome clasps fasten arm joints to emulate the stillness of unlife.

For the purpose of determining your accuracy with ranged attacks, your agility is treated as if it were 6 points higher. Neuronically charged tissue sheaths transmit the will faster than what cell biology had achieved.

You fire pistols 25% faster. Blue carbide merely dents where weak collagen would be smashed to bits.

Your fists deal 2d3 damage. Black fullerite merely dents where weak collagen would be smashed to bits.

Your fists deal 2d4+1 damage. The quartet of knee joint extensors gain the assistance of a synthetic fifth.

Your Charge range is increased by 4 spaces. The new flesh is as ghost film, cloaking none of the machinery of life. 

+3 DV A whole new pair of hands fabricated from graphene and neutrafoam. Their pylons await engagement.

+1 Agility A whole new arm fabricated from graphene and neutrafoam. Its pylon awaits engagement.

+1 Strength Neutrafoam ropes are banded and bundled into a fluted column.
          
+10 movespeed Instructions dictate the reformation of the face into a countenance that arouses latent desires in its onlookers.
          
+1 Ego The microscopic cartridge synthesizes dopamine at a rapid rate and floods the neural pathways in motivational bliss.
          
+1 Willpower An apparatus-in-chromium that pumps blood in smooth waves rather than the frantic beating of carcass-grown muscle tissue.
          
+1 Toughness For ages they dreamed, 'the hands must grow'. In the soft luster of a laboratory, the dream was realized.
          
You can wield two-handed melee weapons in one hand. Between the multipronged sticktool and cipherbox, one can interface with all available robotic ports.
          
You rebuke robots as if you were 5 levels higher. Fluted keys for every wavelength along every spectrum permit entrance through every portal.
          
You can unlock any door. Three catheters imprint the skin from underneath.
          
The effects of tonics last twice as long. Pillowy neutrofoam scales tense around a supporting axis. Once installed, they'll unwind and inflate under the skin.

+9 Heat Resistance
+9 Cold Resistance
+9 Electrical Resistance
+9 Acid Resistance Triangular treads swathe the teeth of giant gears that turn to locomote. Their human has escaped the confines of bipedal motion.

+50 movespeed
You cannot wear shoes.
This implant can't be uninstalled. Skeletal hand of cobalt blue metal remains suspended in temporary lifelessness. Skeletal hand of jet black metal remains suspended in temporary lifelessness. Nanoscopic stents inflate the gossamer brain-threads that restrict the conduction of the will.

Activated. Cooldown 100.
You gain +40 quickness for 10 rounds, then you become sluggish for 10 rounds (-10 quickness).  The metabolic rhythms of the Holy City's denizens are synchronized to their diurnal rituals: during the day, repose in prayer beneath the shade of a fluted ziggarut; during the night, prowl the toxic arboreta for sacrifices.

+10% regeneration during the day.
Once per night, you can Prowl, gaining +6 agility and +10 movespeed for 100 rounds. Small distortions in the electromagnetic field caused by machine folk are visible to this sensor.

You detect nearby robots without having to see them. The flux inside this milliscopic cask can fold space on just a large enough scale to shunt a human chassis nearby.

Activated. Cooldown 100.
You teleport to a random, explored space on the map. Near the Fuming God Sea, where seawater crashes into sunrock and erupts into mephitic vapor, a labyrinth of volcanic grottos form a dimensionless space where the utility of sight wanes. For the children of the deep, new senses wax in its stead.

Staircases and other up/down map transitions are always revealed to you. Meticulously detailed modeling software and instructions for facial reformation allow the host to assume the visage of choice, forever obsoleting masks.

+300 reputation with a faction you choose at installation time The back-mounted gun rack of polished chrome has two slots for pistols to sit over each shoulder or for a single rifle to sit over the shoulder of choice.

You gain an additional left and right missile weapon slot.
You cannot wear equipment on your back. Encoded on this chip are the neural patterns of a particular skill.

You gain a random skill whose cost is between 0 and 50 SP. Encoded on this chip are the neural patterns of a particular skill.

You gain a random skill whose cost is between 51 and 150 SP. Encoded on this chip are the neural patterns of a particular skill.

You gain a random skill whose cost greater than 151 SP. Encoded on this chip are the neural patterns of a particular skill tree.

You gain access to a whole skill tree. Encoded on this chip are the schematics for a whole class of low-tier artifacts.

You gain access to every schematic for a single class of artifacts. Encoded on this chip are the schematics for a whole class of mid-tier artifacts.

You gain access to every schematic for a single class of artifacts. Encoded on this chip are the schematics for a whole class of high-tier artifacts.

You gain access to every schematic for a single class of artifacts. Beneath the glass arch of this enclosure there is a standing rectangle of neutrofoam with the imprint of a human form. Across the foam at eye level, glyphs dance on a diaphonous screen. Surgical machinery, obscured by blinding light, reposes above. Chrome pegs form a lattice where bionic modules await coupling. Chrome pegs form a lattice where modules await coupling. Erosion has smoothed its features into abstraction, but once it stood in monument to the coupling of machine and folk. A tiny wedge of plastic. A tiny wedge of plastic. A tiny wedge of plastic. A tiny wedge of plastic. A tiny wedge of plastic. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. A simple chest made from dried brinestalk. An ancient wall, with an assortment of sinister looking nodules protruding from it. Wisps of steam coil out of several vertical vents cut from the tarnished chrome. Wisps of noxious fumes coil out of several vertical vents cut from the tarnished chrome. Sparks fly from several vertical vents cut from the tarnished chrome. Tiny scratches cover the metal strips that rest between several horizontal vents cut from the tarnished chrome. Tiny scratches cover the metal strips that rest between several horizontal vents cut from the tarnished chrome. A plate of chrome inscribed with glyphs. A plate of chrome inscribed with glyphs. A plate of chrome inscribed with glyphs. A plate of chrome inscribed with glyphs. A plate of chrome inscribed with glyphs. A chrome pillar incrusted with a sheet of frost. A chrome pillar incrusted with a sheet of frost. A chrome pillar incrusted with a sheet of frost. A chrome pillar incrusted with a sheet of frost. A chrome pillar incrusted with a sheet of frost. A chrome pillar incrusted with a sheet of frost. This metal plate bears a pair of buttons. This metal plate bears a pair of buttons. This metal plate bears a pair of buttons. This metal plate bears a single button. Splinters of brinestalk burn red inside this ancient piped hearth of stone. This is a crude anvil made from a smoothed block of stone. A weighty ingot of bronze. Out of a gold-plated box, kaleidoscopic tiles and tones harmonize over several dimensions. This humming, chrome engine powers the belt pulleys that convey waste through the chutes. Putrid dross coats the black, di-rubber belt that conveys waste toward the shaft at the end of the chute. A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card. A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card. A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card. A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card. A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card. A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card. A massive metal door fused shut. A paper-thin access card, which will open some doors in the depths of Qud. A paper-thin access card, which will open some doors in the depths of Qud. A paper-thin access card, which will open some doors in the depths of Qud. A paper-thin access card, which will open some doors in the depths of Qud. A paper-thin access card, which will open some doors in the depths of Qud. A paper-thin access card, which will open some doors in the depths of Qud. A simple portal. A simple portal. An unadorned bronze key. An unadorned silver key. An unadorned gold key. A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card. A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card. A sliding metal plate impressed with the mold of a key card. An upward-leading staircase. A downward-leading staircase. A downward-leading staircase. An unadorned chrome key. A wide, dark shaft whose chrome walls are coated with stinking, viscous scum. You hear splashing and the drone of conveyor belts below. Darkness obscures the terminus of this wide shaft. It appears too deep to safely descend. Open air Ancient ruins Barren wasteland Barren wasteland Water Spores dance in eddies across kaleidoscopic fungal bonnets. Rivers of primordial soup, cast in the light of lava, gurgle a quickening melody. Svy urges over the salt-capped peaks and spills into the vine-braided loam. Her banks are shaded by the chrome carcasses of giants. The Spindle scintillates in watery effigy on her surface. She ferries crushed granite through a mountain pass and into her leafy firth. The umbrage of the boughs wring the warmth from Opal's waters and leave behind a shady pool. Yonth breaks the massif to the strange East and ushers its nameless waters into Qud. Fish-things feed on her basalt chips. Old alps opened in the ageless past fill with a cool brine. The ivory sea's dunes are like waves frozen in place. There are cracks in the salt from where the earth, blistered by the jeweled sun, contracted and broke. The horizon melts the sky together with the vast plain of Moghra'yi, the Great Salt Desert. The ivory sea's dunes are like waves frozen in place. There are cracks in the salt from where the earth, blistered by the jeweled sun, contracted and broke. The horizon melts the sky together with the vast plain of Moghra'yi, the Great Salt Desert. The ivory sea's dunes are like waves frozen in place. There are cracks in the salt from where the earth, blistered by the jeweled sun, contracted and broke. The horizon melts the sky together with the vast plain of Moghra'yi, the Great Salt Desert. Prismatic filament colonizes the cracks between the salted rot. There are meadows here, She says. Piper's weald Braids of roots and ribbons of fronds dimensionalize the flat loam. Something's home a discarded leaf makes. Spores dance in eddies across kaleidoscopic fungal bonnets. Rivers of primordial soup, cast in the light of lava, gurgle a quickening melody. Rolling plains Rolling plains Rolling plains Rolling plains Blips in the wave graph of stone over time. In the wave graph of stone over time, where the world plates once vexed themselves into war, a quiet peace has settled. Chasm Ants in the viridian chaff, the farmers sap the last drops of pristine moisture out of the salt-spangled earth. Long ago the rivers themselves were ravenous, and they feasted on shale and limestone before taking bloated respite in the Great Salt Sea. Now the fissure-wounds have rotted to crimson and salt. Long ago the rivers themselves were ravenous, and they feasted on shale and limestone before taking bloated respite in the Great Salt Sea. Now the fissure-wounds have rotted to crimson and salt. Long ago the rivers themselves were ravenous, and they feasted on shale and limestone before taking bloated respite in the Great Salt Sea. Now the fissure-wounds have rotted to crimson and salt. Long ago the rivers themselves were ravenous, and they feasted on shale and limestone before taking bloated respite in the Great Salt Sea. Now the fissure-wounds have rotted to crimson and salt. In stagnant pools, luminous lilies compete with the ribbon of stars in the night sky. Under the salt sun, though, they shrink into the shade of brine weed. In stagnant pools, luminous lilies compete with the ribbon of stars in the night sky. Under the salt sun, though, they shrink into the shade of brine weed. In stagnant pools, luminous lilies compete with the ribbon of stars in the night sky. Under the salt sun, though, they shrink into the shade of brine weed. The grove's million laced fingers sway in gentle opulence. Verdant fronds nestle the base of the Spindle from its mountainous nook. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Here crumble the mysterious Eaters' vine-swathed works, spun on the cyclopean lathe in an ageless past. Chrome steeples and parapets that rise above the clutches of shale hint at the labyrinths beneath them. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. Only the vexing hum of the Signal interrupts the incandescent stillness. A small crack leads down into the earth. Red qudzu vines take as their trellises chrome wells bored into the earth. Shrouded in the rotting jungle are the mouths of the rust-caves of Golgotha, chrome's graveyard. Rubble encases this abandoned mine where ancient tribes siphoned the black blood for their own inscrutable purposes. Spanning the sky rusts a metal archway under which passed the chrome gargantuans canonized in the elder canticles. Through the prismatic umbrage fly the archways and buttresses of the monuments above the catacombs of the Eaters of earth. Eons-shifted stone entombs the angleless architecture of Bethsaida's lair. Wispy fronds undulate from this anemic plant, whose bulbly stem is already budding. A simple sole and straps of leather inlaid with a shining emerald. This blade is bowed and black as the desert night. The hilt is inscribed with gold, calligraphic glyphs Two shining chrome and platinum rocket-shaped cylinders straddle a metal grill. Atop each is a conical copper cap, and from the bottoms of each streams a brilliant, fiery flume.
          
 You may activate this item to enter a dashing state.
 While dashing, whenever you move in a direction, you dash toward the nearest enemy or obstacle and perform an attack.
 For every three spaces you dash, you gain a +2 bonus to hit and a +2 penetration bonus to attacks you make.
 If you do not encounter an enemy or obstacle after twenty squares, you stop dashing.
 
 Duration: 10 rounds
 Cooldown: 100 rounds Saad Amus, called the Sky-Bear, whose princely bearing, fibrous physique, and pale complexion grant the impression that he was chiseled from some celestial stone of alabaster, casts his furious gaze on the world. Saad Amus, called the Sky-Bear, whose princely bearing, fibrous physique, and pale complexion grant the impression that he was chiseled from some celestial stone of alabaster, casts his furious gaze on the world. This colossal mound of dimpled, gray flesh tapers at the head into a sloping, thrice-horned snout pocked with the scars of bestial rage. A corpse. "Let the manes put off their terror, let them put off their aqueous bodies with fire.
      Let them draw together the bones of the metal.
      Selvaggia, Guiscarda, Mandetta,
      Rain flakes of gold on the water
      Azure and  flaking silver of water,
      Pallor of silver, pale lustre of Latona,
      By these, from the malevolence of the dew
      Guard this alembic.
      Elain, Tireis, Allodetta
      Quiet this metal."
      -Ezra Pound A scorched wooden table with a phial rack and alembic. A scorched wooden table with a phial rack and alembic. A bundled roll of wool. A wool smock blotched with soot. A phial of glass. A phial of glass. A phial of glass. A phial of metaglass. In high relief, folds and knots of sandy hued shapes crown the sapphire surface of the spherical model. The juxtaposition of scales, the proportion of sea to land, and the collective wisdom harnessed to devise such a thing make your head spin. Brass gears, balls, and rings turn in precise mimicry of worlds and stars. Barathrum's invention records time to the momentary tick by regulating its advance with a crown wheel. On learning of its utility, the water barons comissioned the assembly of dozens more in order to take precise measurements of their resevoirs at set moments of the day. Q Girl replaced the old oscillator on this Barathrum clock with a swing pendulum. Now the several hours per day that Time cheats from its observers are reduced to mere minutes. During the enterprise of invention, you sometimes require the use of a shapeless gray foam. Or, at the very least, you might require it one day, and so some tinker prudently got ahead of the problem and invented the brass foaminator. Inscribed on the base: 'All the foam, none of the sadness at maybe one day needing foam and not having it'. Four flanged couplings form a cross with a wavegraph readout at the center. As liquids and gases pipe through, flux readings appear in neon strings. Two copper bulbs form a spark gap that facilitates current along a path of ionized gas. The thing snaps and sparks at you. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. A small, wooden table bestrewn with knots. Euclid twines lovingly around a witchwood stake. A noggin of its knotted tendrils pursues things that move around the study. Remembering everything it hears, it flicks its leaves against itself to form words and chat with passersby. The hallowed ground upon which the Spindle, a lengthless needle of Maya blue, meets the earth from where it pierces the firmament. Land that lies in the shadow of the spindle of Omonporch. Possessed of the enterprising spirit that stirred in Hegelrut ages ago, Asphodel [called the Lovely] recently flitted toward the Spindle with xyr asphodelytes in tow and crowned xemself Earl of Omonporch. There xe reposes in the musa grove, under the Great Shade, unfurling xyr petals into perfect contours and holding court. Beautiful, contour petals wrap into a florid bowl. Its filament crackles in the stale air. A bit of dirt sputters from where its pseudopodal roots sift through the loam. A jungle village of ape-god worshipers and their giant mushroom dwellings. A naturally reddened outcropping of stone juts out of the salted crag. In stagnant pools, luminous lilies compete with the ribbon of stars in the night sky. Under the salt sun, though, they shrink into the shade of brine weed. Gijon Spring, rumored to hold a vast lake of crystalline water, none have ever returned. Here lies the Garden of Geth, from whose ancient coordinates seeds sprouted in spite of the earth's churlishness. The Six Day Stilt rises from the dunes like a petrified kraken corpse, bearing down upon the vacant flats. Eyn Rogel Still erect is the superior half of the colossal gate inscribed with the runes of a hundred indecipherable tongues. Beneath its chrome palings a wide passage opens into the jungle loam. 
